GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE MARCH SIX
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS ONE NATION UNDER
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL WITH OUR PLEASE
CALL THE ROLE OF COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH PRESENT
ELSMERE HARRISON, PRESIDENT
OF OUR SONG HERE COUNSELOR
WATSON, PRESIDENT OF DENHA HERE
CUSTOMER GARTSIDE ONE HERE
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE CUSTOMER
IRELAND HERE CUSTOMER ACKMANN
HERE CUSTOMER BRIGG'S MARCANO
HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM THEY HAVE
A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL BORODINO
SECOND BY KELTS MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA
AL-FADL POST THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
NOEMIA
.
WE NOW HAVE A REPORT FROM THE
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION.
WELCOME TO THANK YOU MAYOR AND
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS STEPHANIE CARTER.
I'M THE VICE CHAIR OF IG PAC.
I AM HERE IN PLACE OF OUR CHAIR
FRANCIS DORA HARGRAVE WHO IS
OUT OF TOWN AND I THANK YOU FOR
GIVING US THE OPPORTUNITY TO
GIVE YOU AN UPDATE ALTHOUGH WE
DON'T HAVE A LOT TO UPDATE YOU
ABOUT.
WE HAVE HAD SOME TO CANCEL A
MEETING.
WE'VE HAD POWER OUTAGES.
WE HAD A MEETING SCHEDULED WITH
THE POLICE AND THAT HAD TO BE
CANCELED BECAUSE OF POWER
ISSUES.
SO WE BUT WE ARE WORKING WE
PLAN TO HAVE BY THE 16TH
OF MARCH THE MEETING THAT WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE WITH THE
DEPARTMENT HAS BEEN RESCHEDULED
AND SO WE EXPECT TO HAVE THAT
COMING.
WE ALSO UNDERSTAND THE COMMAND
UNION WILL BE NEGOTIATED
NEGOTIATIONS FOR THEIR CONTRACT
VERY SOON AND WE LOOK FORWARD
TO HAVING SOME INPUT WITH THAT
OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF MONTHS.
WE CONTINUE TO MAKE PROGRESS
WITH OUR SUBCOMMITTEES.
WE DID HAVE RETREAT A COUPLE
OF WEEKS AGO AND WE HAVE A NEW
COMMITTEE, ONE OF THEM BEING
POLICY COMMITTEE.
WE PLAN TO REVIEW ALL OF THE
POLICE POLICIES AND IF WE HAVE
INPUT OR SUGGESTIONS WE WILL DO
THAT.
WE'RE ALSO DEVELOPING OUR OWN
POLICIES AS A COMMISSION.
AS YOU KNOW, WE'RE VERY YOUNG
COMMISSION STILL IN ADDITION TO
THAT WE ARE HOPING TO HAVE A
RETREAT SOON NOT JUST WITH
OURSELVES BUT WITH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AS WELL.
WE'RE TRYING STILL TO BUILD
TRUST TO INCREASE TRANSPARENCY
AND HOPEFULLY TO MOVE TO A
PLACE WHERE WE HAVE A COMMUNITY
BASED POLICE DEPARTMENT.
THAT'S OUR GOAL.
IF THERE ARE ANY QUESTIONS I'M
HAPPY TO ANSWER.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
COMMENTS, PUBLIC COMMENTS,
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST.
TO SPEAK A PUBLIC COMMENT ONE
NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK.
EACH SPEAKER HAS THREE MINUTES
IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME IF
YOU'RE HERE OF COURSE YOU MAY
OBSERVE THAT TIME CLOCK IF YOU
ARE ONLINE OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY WHEN THIRTY SECONDS ARE
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED IN ALL CASES WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND SEEK
THE FLOOR FOR WE DO HAVE OVER
FIFTEEN PUBLIC SPEAKERS IF WE
ARE ABLE TO TAKE CARE OF ALL
OF OUR PUBLIC SPEAKERS WITHIN
FORTY FIVE MINUTES THEN WE WILL
RATHER OUR FIRST FIFTEEN PUBLIC
SPEAKERS WITHIN FORTY FIVE
MINUTES AND WILL ROLL ON TO
HEAR OUR SIXTEENTH WITHIN THAT
FORTY FIVE MINUTE TIME FRAME.
IF HOWEVER THE FIRST FIFTEEN
PUBLIC SPEAKERS EXTEND BEYOND
FORTY FIVE MINUTES THEN WE HAVE
PUBLIC SPEAKING OVERFLOW ON THE
BACK END OUR FIRST SPEAKER
TODAY IS RACHEL POUILLY.
HI THIS IS MY FIRST TIME
ADDRESSING THE COUNCIL EVEN
THOUGH I'M IN ANN ARBOR NATIVE
AND I AM HERE BECAUSE ENERGY IS
REALLY IMPORTANT TO ME AND I AM
REALLY INTERESTED IN THE
RESOLUTION THAT'S BEING
PROPOSED.
I'M REALLY HAPPY TO SEE THE
ENTHUSIASM AND I FEEL LIKE AS A
CITY WE'RE MOVING IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION.
BUT I HAVE A CONCERN ABOUT WELL
I'D LIKE TO SEE FIRST I REALLY
APPRECIATE BEING ABLE TO TALK
WITH DHARMA ECKMANN AND JEN IA
MY REPS AFTER THE STORM ABOUT
MANY OF THE ISSUES THAT WE SEE
IN THE RESOLUTION.
BUT I DO HAVE A CONCERN ABOUT
DTV AND INVITED TO THE TABLE
THAT CAUSE BEING INVITED TO THE
ENERGY COMMISSION AND I WOULD
HOPE THAT SOMEBODY CAN EXPLAIN
TO ME WHY THAT IS AND WHAT THE
INTENT OF THAT IS.
I PERSONALLY DON'T SEE THAT
THEY DESERVE TO HAVE A SEAT AT
THE TABLE.
WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO POINT OUT
IS ALSO I'LL GET AROUND TO THIS
BUT IN TERMS OF THE RESOLUTION
,I THINK IT'S GREAT TO TRY TO
WORK WITH THE STATE BUT WE ALSO
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY AS A CITY
TO CREATE OUR OWN MUNICIPAL
UTILITY AND BYPASS DEALING WITH
A STATE.
AND I'D LIKE TO POINT OUT THE
STATE HAS NOT BEEN EFFECTIVE IN
REGULATING DTG IF YOU LOOK AT
THE PSC THEY SET THEMSELVES IN
OCTOBER TWENTY FIFTH PRESS
RELEASE TWENTY TWENTY TWO OVER
THE PAST DECADES THE NPC HAS
ISSUED A SERIES DIRECTIVES IN
RESPONSE TO WIDESPREAD OUTAGES
AFTER STORMS.
WHILE THERE ARE IMPORTANT
EFFORTS UNDERWAY, THE REALITY
IS THAT WE STILL HAVEN'T SEEN
IMPROVEMENTS IN RELIABILITY AND
SAFETY THAT MICHIGAN CUSTOMERS
DESERVE.
THAT'S OUR OWN COMMISSION
SAYING THAT WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
THE LEGISLATURE A REPORT FROM
THE ENERGY AND POLICY INSTITUTE
REPORTS THAT ONE HUNDRED THIRTY
EIGHT OUT OF ONE HUNDRED AND
FORTY EIGHT STATE SENATORS
ACCEPT MONEY FROM DTT.
GOVERNOR WITTMER ACCEPTS MORE
MONEY THAN ANY OTHER STATE
ELECTED OFFICIAL.
WE CAN BYPASS THE STATE AND
WORK AT A CITY LEVEL AND WE
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO DO
THAT.
WE HAVE THE LEGAL RIGHT TO DO
SO I THINK THAT'S SOMETHING I'D
THAT.
REALLY LIKE TO SEE US DO.
SO I THINK THAT'S SOMETHING I'D
THE FEASIBILITY STUDY WILL SHOW
REALLY LIKE TO SEE US DO.
US WHAT OPTIONS WE HAVE BUT I
THE FEASIBILITY STUDY WILL SHOW
WOULD LIKE THE CLAUSE ABOUT AT
US WHAT OPTIONS WE HAVE BUT I
THE TABLE TO BE REMOVED.
WOULD LIKE THE CLAUSE ABOUT AT
I DON'T THINK THEY HAVE ACTED
THE TABLE TO BE REMOVED.
IN GOOD FAITH WITH OUR STATE
I DON'T THINK THEY HAVE ACTED
AND WITH OUR CITY.
IN GOOD FAITH WITH OUR STATE
THANK YOU.
AND WITH OUR CITY.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LAUREN
THANK YOU.
SARGENT.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LAUREN
GOOD EVENING.
SARGENT.
I'M DR. LAUREN SARGENT.
GOOD EVENING.
I LIVE ON INVERWAY IN ANN ARBOR
I'M DR. LAUREN SARGENT.
AS I HAVE LIVED HERE FOR THE
I LIVE ON INVERWAY IN ANN ARBOR
PAST 40 YEARS AS WE'VE ALL SEEN
AS I HAVE LIVED HERE FOR THE
WAY TOO CLEARLY THE LAST TWO
PAST 40 YEARS AS WE'VE ALL SEEN
WEEKS DUTY HAS FAILED US.
WAY TOO CLEARLY THE LAST TWO
THANK YOU FOR TAKING A FIRST
WEEKS DUTY HAS FAILED US.
STEP TOWARDS DEMANDING
THANK YOU FOR TAKING A FIRST
ACCOUNTABILITY FOR THESE
STEP TOWARDS DEMANDING
UNACCEPTABLE ELECTRIC OUTAGES.
ACCOUNTABILITY FOR THESE
THIS WAS COMPLETELY PREDICTABLE
UNACCEPTABLE ELECTRIC OUTAGES.
AND LARGELY PREVENTABLE.
THIS WAS COMPLETELY PREDICTABLE
DTT CAN BE RELIED UPON TO BE
AND LARGELY PREVENTABLE.
UNRELIABLE.
DTT CAN BE RELIED UPON TO BE
THIS IS NOTHING NEW.
UNRELIABLE.
OVER FORTY YEARS AGO THEN
THIS IS NOTHING NEW.
DETROIT EDISON MADE A BUSINESS
OVER FORTY YEARS AGO THEN
DECISION TO FOCUS ON
DETROIT EDISON MADE A BUSINESS
SHAREHOLDER VALUE INSTEAD
DECISION TO FOCUS ON
OF RELIABILITY AND CUSTOMER
SHAREHOLDER VALUE INSTEAD
SERVICE AND IT SHOWS ONE SUMMER
OF RELIABILITY AND CUSTOMER
IN LATE IN THE LATE 1980S
SERVICE AND IT SHOWS ONE SUMMER
DETROIT LOST POWER.
IN LATE IN THE LATE 1980S
MY HEALTHY NINETY THREE YEAR
DETROIT LOST POWER.
OLD GRANDMA SARGENT BECAME
MY HEALTHY NINETY THREE YEAR
HYPOTHERMIC IN THE HEAT AND
OLD GRANDMA SARGENT BECAME
HUMIDITY OF AUGUST WITHOUT AIR
HYPOTHERMIC IN THE HEAT AND
CONDITIONING.
HUMIDITY OF AUGUST WITHOUT AIR
SHE WAS TAKEN TO SINAI HOSPITAL
CONDITIONING.
WHERE SHE LAPSED INTO A COMA
SHE WAS TAKEN TO SINAI HOSPITAL
AND NEVER REGAINED
WHERE SHE LAPSED INTO A COMA
CONSCIOUSNESS.
AND NEVER REGAINED
IN TWENTY SIX WE EXPERIENCED
CONSCIOUSNESS.
ONE OF OUR FREQUENT POWER
IN TWENTY SIX WE EXPERIENCED
OUTAGES IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD.
ONE OF OUR FREQUENT POWER
MY SON'S BUDDY'S LITTLE SISTER
OUTAGES IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD.
HAD DEVELOPED A PROGRESSIVE
MY SON'S BUDDY'S LITTLE SISTER
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY WHICH LEFT
HAD DEVELOPED A PROGRESSIVE
HER DEPENDENT ON BREATHING
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY WHICH LEFT
EQUIPMENT AT NIGHT I ASKED THE
HER DEPENDENT ON BREATHING
SUPERVISOR CRUISING THROUGH OUR
EQUIPMENT AT NIGHT I ASKED THE
NEIGHBORHOOD CAN YOU GET THIS
SUPERVISOR CRUISING THROUGH OUR
FAMILY SOME HELP?
NEIGHBORHOOD CAN YOU GET THIS
THEIR LITTLE GIRL CAN'T BREATHE
FAMILY SOME HELP?
AT NIGHT WITHOUT POWER.
THEIR LITTLE GIRL CAN'T BREATHE
THE REPLY IS SHE CAN'T BREATHE.
AT NIGHT WITHOUT POWER.
SHE SHOULD GO TO A HOSPITAL
THE REPLY IS SHE CAN'T BREATHE.
THAT FAMILY MOVED AWAY LAST
SHE SHOULD GO TO A HOSPITAL
WEEK I FOUND ANOTHER SUPERVISOR
THAT FAMILY MOVED AWAY LAST
DRIVING THROUGH A NEARBY
WEEK I FOUND ANOTHER SUPERVISOR
NEIGHBORHOOD AND ASKED WHAT WAS
DRIVING THROUGH A NEARBY
CAUSING OUR FOUR PLUS DAY POWER
NEIGHBORHOOD AND ASKED WHAT WAS
OUTAGE.
CAUSING OUR FOUR PLUS DAY POWER
HE SAID IT IS THE TREES TELL
OUTAGE.
YOUR NEIGHBORS TO TRIM THEIR
HE SAID IT IS THE TREES TELL
TREES.
YOUR NEIGHBORS TO TRIM THEIR
MY NEIGHBORHOOD HAS UNDERGROUND
TREES.
UTILITIES.
MY NEIGHBORHOOD HAS UNDERGROUND
OUR TREES ARE NOT GUILTY.
UTILITIES.
THE CALLOUS DISREGARD FOR THE
OUR TREES ARE NOT GUILTY.
HEALTH AND SAFETY OF THE
THE CALLOUS DISREGARD FOR THE
CUSTOMERS CANNOT BE ACCEPTED
HEALTH AND SAFETY OF THE
ONE MORE DAY.
CUSTOMERS CANNOT BE ACCEPTED
IT IS LITERALLY A MATTER
ONE MORE DAY.
OF LIFE AND DEATH PARTICULARLY
IT IS LITERALLY A MATTER
IN WINTER AND SUMMER WHEN
OF LIFE AND DEATH PARTICULARLY
BABIES UNDER SIX AND THE
IN WINTER AND SUMMER WHEN
ELDERLY CANNOT REGULATE THEIR
BABIES UNDER SIX AND THE
BODY TEMPERATURE AT A SAFE
ELDERLY CANNOT REGULATE THEIR
LEVEL.
BODY TEMPERATURE AT A SAFE
BUT ANY TIME OF YEAR FOR PEOPLE
LEVEL.
WHO RELY ON ELECTRICITY FOR
BUT ANY TIME OF YEAR FOR PEOPLE
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND SAFE
WHO RELY ON ELECTRICITY FOR
STORAGE OF LIFE SUSTAINING
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND SAFE
MEDICINE, I URGE YOU THE
STORAGE OF LIFE SUSTAINING
COUNCIL TO JOIN WITH WASHTENAW
MEDICINE, I URGE YOU THE
COUNTY AND THE CITY OF PONTIAC
COUNCIL TO JOIN WITH WASHTENAW
TO PROCLAIM THAT THIS PATTERN
COUNTY AND THE CITY OF PONTIAC
ENDS HERE IN TWENTY THIRTEEN
TO PROCLAIM THAT THIS PATTERN
THE CITY OF LANSING EXPERIENCED
ENDS HERE IN TWENTY THIRTEEN
A CATASTROPHIC ICE STORM WITH
THE CITY OF LANSING EXPERIENCED
PROLONGED OUTAGES.
A CATASTROPHIC ICE STORM WITH
THE CITIZENS CALLED ON THEIR
PROLONGED OUTAGES.
MUNICIPAL UTILITY THAT IS
THE CITIZENS CALLED ON THEIR
ACCOUNTABLE TO THEM THE
MUNICIPAL UTILITY THAT IS
CITIZENS TO ENSURE THAT THIS
ACCOUNTABLE TO THEM THE
WOULD NEVER HAPPEN AGAIN.
CITIZENS TO ENSURE THAT THIS
HERE IS THE REPORT OUTLINE ALL
WOULD NEVER HAPPEN AGAIN.
THE CHANGES THEY MADE AND NO IT
HERE IS THE REPORT OUTLINE ALL
IS NOT JUST THE TREES.
THE CHANGES THEY MADE AND NO IT
THEY HAVE NOT HAD A MAJOR POWER
IS NOT JUST THE TREES.
OUTAGE SINCE THESE LAST TWO
THEY HAVE NOT HAD A MAJOR POWER
STORMS RESULTED IN FEWER THAN
OUTAGE SINCE THESE LAST TWO
ONE HUNDRED OF ONE HUNDRED
STORMS RESULTED IN FEWER THAN
THOUSAND CUSTOMERS OUT OF POWER
ONE HUNDRED OF ONE HUNDRED
.
THOUSAND CUSTOMERS OUT OF POWER
BRIEFLY ACCOUNTABILITY MATTERS
.
EITHER WE DEMAND BETTER OR WE
BRIEFLY ACCOUNTABILITY MATTERS
PULL THE PLUG ON DC AND TAKE
EITHER WE DEMAND BETTER OR WE
THE POWER INTO OUR OWN HANDS.
PULL THE PLUG ON DC AND TAKE
THANK YOU.
THE POWER INTO OUR OWN HANDS.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHLEEN
THANK YOU.
MURPHY
.
KATHLEEN MURPHY, PHONE NUMBER
TWO FOUR FIVE.
GO AHEAD KNOW I'M WORKING.
I THREE FIFTY THREE POINT ONE
ON THREE IN WARD FIVE I WORK
WITH NEIGHBORHOOD PUBLIC POWER
WHICH IS SEEKING TO REPLACE
CITY WITH AN AVERAGE ON PUBLIC
ELECTRIC UTILITY.
I'D LIKE TO CERTAINLY COMMEND
COUNCIL MEMBERS CATHY EDWIN
FROM HARRISON FOR THE
RESOLUTION THEY PUT FORWARD
CALL REQUESTING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATION TO ENGAGE WITH
THE LEGISLATURE AND THE CITY
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION TO
ADVANCE EQUITY AND I HOPE IT
SPELLS MANY WAYS IN WHICH WE
NEED TO HOLD ACCOUNTABLE FOR
ITS LACK OF RELIABILITY DURING
THE RECENT ICE STORM AND DURING
THE SNOWSTORM THAT FOLLOWED
HUNDREDS OF RESIDENTS IN ANN
ARBOR AND IN SOUTHEAST MICHIGAN
LOST POWER DURING BOTH STORMS
AND FOR AS MANY AS EIGHT DAYS A
FEW EVEN LONGER WE SHOULD ALL
BE OUTRAGED AT THE LACK
OF PREPARATION FOR THIS EVER
MORE EXTREME WEATHER
CONDITIONS.
I PROPOSE ONE SMALL AMENDMENT
TO THE RESOLUTION AND THAT IS
TO REMOVE THE CLAUSE STATING
THAT D.C. SHOULD QUOTE AGAIN
REGULARLY SCHEDULED ENERGY
COMMISSION MEETINGS TO PROVIDE
UPDATES ON WHAT IS DOING TO
IMPROVE THE RESILIENCE OF THE
INFRASTRUCTURE WITH A FOCUS ON
ENERGY, JUSTICE AND
DECARBONIZATION IN THE ENERGY
COMMISSION HAS THE POWER TO
CALL ON TO SPEAK AT ITS
MEETINGS AND TO GET UPDATES AT
ANY TIME TO ALLOW THE EPA TO BE
ALWAYS PRESENT AT ENERGY
COMMISSION MEETINGS IN D.C. THE
OPPORTUNITY TO PUSH FORWARD ITS
PR CAMPAIGN TO GREENWASH WHAT
IT'S DOING AND NOT DOING SO I
SUGGEST AMENDING THE RESOLUTION
TO REMOVE THIS ONE CLAUSE.
BUT AGAIN I THINK COUNCIL
MEMBERS THAT WE HAD ONE SONG
AND HARRISON FOR PUTTING THIS
RESOLUTION FORWARD.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GREG
BARTON.
GREG WOODRING
CALL OVER THE
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN TWO TO
EIGHT.
GREG, GO AHEAD.
WELL, CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, WE CAN.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS GREG WOODRING AND I
AM THE PRESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR
FOR PUBLIC POWER.
I'M AMONG THE UNLUCKY FEW WHO
HAD POWER OUT FOR ABOUT EIGHT
DAYS FOR OVER EIGHT DAYS I HAD
MY POWER RESTORED ON THE NINTH
DAY OF OUTAGE AND JUST FIVE
HOURS LATER MY POWER FAILED
ONCE AGAIN DUE TO THE
SNOWSTORM.
I'M CALLING IN BECAUSE I WOULD
LIKE TO COMMEND COUNCIL MEMBER
GHAZI EDWYN SONG AND HARRISON
AS WELL FOR THEIR RESOLUTION
CALLING ON GREATER
ACCOUNTABILITY FOR WITHIN THE
MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION LEGISLATURE AND AT
THE CITY LEVEL.
I THINK THAT IT'S INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT THAT WE ALL USE THIS
TRAGEDY, THIS MASSIVE POWER
OUTAGE TO REALLY DEMAND CHANGE
FOR SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN
GOING ON FOR FAR TOO LONG.
HETI HAS MADE THE STRATEGIC
DECISION TO INVEST IN OUR
POLITICS RATHER THAN THEIR
INFRASTRUCTURE.
THEY'RE THE FOURTH DIRTIEST
UTILITY.
THEY'RE ONE OF THE MOST
EXPENSIVE UTILITIES AND AS WE
JUST SAW THERE, ONE OF THE MOST
UNRELIABLE WITH UP TO NINE DAY
OUTAGES FOLLOWED BY EVEN LONGER
OUTAGES THAT HAVE NOT FULLY
RESOLVED.
MEANWHILE, PUBLIC UTILITIES
LIKE LANSING, CHELSIE WIND ALL
HAD VERY SHORT LIVED OUTAGES OR
NONE AT ALL.
THE DIFFERENCE IS CLEAR BETWEEN
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE UTILITIES
AND I THINK THAT OTHER PEOPLE
ACROSS THE STATE ARE LOOKING TO
ANN ARBOR AND SEEING THAT WE
HAVE TAKEN THE STEPS FORWARD TO
START TO BREAK AND ARE TRYING
TO FOLLOW IN OUR EXAMPLE IT'S
INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT THAT WE
CONTINUE TO MOVE ALONG THIS
PROCESS TO GIVE HOPE TO OTHERS
IN THE STATE THAT WE NO LONGER
WILL HAVE TO LIVE UNDER THE
RULE AND CALLOUS REGIME OF .
SO I'D LIKE TO THANK THE
COMMISSION AND THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS APOLOGIZE FOR
INTRODUCING THIS RESOLUTION.
HOWEVER, I WOULD AS OTHER
SPEAKERS HAVE STATED,
RECOMMENDED THAT IT BE AMENDED
TO REMOVE THE CLAUSE ADDING A
PERMANENT SPEAKING POSITION TO
THE ENERGY COMMISSION MEETINGS
FOR DTD.
DTT HAS ALREADY PROVEN THAT
THEY ARE WILLING TO LIE ABOUT
THEIR INVESTMENTS IN THEIR
INFRASTRUCTURE FRAGGING JUST A
DAY AFTER THE OUTAGE THEIR
SHAREHOLDERS ABOUT HOW THEY
SAVED ONE HUNDRED MILLION
DOLLARS BY DEFERRING TREE
TRIMMING AND PLAN TO CONTINUE
DEFERRING MAINTENANCE TO KEEP
THEIR BUDGET CLEAN.
ALL THE SAME TIME WHILE
BRAGGING ABOUT RELIABILITY
UPGRADES TO THE PRESS.
WE SIMPLY CAN'T ALLOW THEM TO
KEEP SPREADING THIS TYPE
OF MISINFORMATION WITHIN OUR
CITY GOVERNMENT.
WE NEED TO REMOVE THEIR
LOBBYING CAPABILITY AND WE NEED
TO BREAK FREE FROM THEM SO THAT
WE CAN START TO BUILD A
RESILIENT AND SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY GRID THAT WILL CARRY US
THROUGH THE CLIMATE CRISIS.
THANKS SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DEREK
MILLER
.
DEREK MILLER PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN ONE FIVE NINE SORRY
ENDING ZERO EIGHT FOUR.
DEREK MILLER PHONE NUMBER
GO AHEAD.
ENDING ZERO EIGHT FOUR.
THANK YOU.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO JEREMY.
THANK YOU.
YES WE CAN.
HELLO JEREMY.
THANK YOU.
YES WE CAN.
HI EVERYBODY.
THANK YOU.
DEREK MILLER, PRESIDENT OF ANN
HI EVERYBODY.
ARBOR ON PAULEY BOULEVARD ALSO
DEREK MILLER, PRESIDENT OF ANN
SPEAKING ON BEHALF OF COMMUNITY
ARBOR ON PAULEY BOULEVARD ALSO
ACTION NETWORK.
SPEAKING ON BEHALF OF COMMUNITY
THERE HAS BEEN A WIDESPREAD
ACTION NETWORK.
DISRUPTION TO SERVICES FOR
THERE HAS BEEN A WIDESPREAD
UNDER-RESOURCED FAMILIES WITH
DISRUPTION TO SERVICES FOR
POCKETS OF OUTAGES STILL
UNDER-RESOURCED FAMILIES WITH
PERSISTING.
POCKETS OF OUTAGES STILL
IN FACT, JUST TWO DAYS AGO
PERSISTING.
COMMUNITY RESIDENTS HAD REACHED
IN FACT, JUST TWO DAYS AGO
OUT ON BEHALF OF THEIR EIGHTY
COMMUNITY RESIDENTS HAD REACHED
NINE YEAR OLD NEIGHBOR STILL
OUT ON BEHALF OF THEIR EIGHTY
WITHOUT POWER BY REACHING OUR
NINE YEAR OLD NEIGHBOR STILL
CONTACT ADT, WE ARE FORTUNATELY
WITHOUT POWER BY REACHING OUR
ABLE TO GET A TEAM OUT THERE TO
CONTACT ADT, WE ARE FORTUNATELY
PRIORITIZE THE REPAIR ALTHOUGH
ABLE TO GET A TEAM OUT THERE TO
THIS RESPONSE WAS TO THE
PRIORITIZE THE REPAIR ALTHOUGH
BENEFIT OF THIS ELDERLY
THIS RESPONSE WAS TO THE
RESIDENT, IT IS SYMPTOMATIC
BENEFIT OF THIS ELDERLY
OF A BROKEN SYSTEM REQUIRING
RESIDENT, IT IS SYMPTOMATIC
FOR RESOLUTION POSSIBLE
OF A BROKEN SYSTEM REQUIRING
SECURITY RESOURCES AS WELL AS
FOR RESOLUTION POSSIBLE
THE ABILITY TO DISTRIBUTE WAS
SECURITY RESOURCES AS WELL AS
SERIOUSLY COMPROMISED AND WE
THE ABILITY TO DISTRIBUTE WAS
ARE THE LARGEST DISTRIBUTOR IN
SERIOUSLY COMPROMISED AND WE
PARTNERSHIP WITH GATHERS IN
ARE THE LARGEST DISTRIBUTOR IN
WASHINGTON COUNTY SCRAMBLING TO
PARTNERSHIP WITH GATHERS IN
MEET EMERGING NEEDS IN LIGHT
WASHINGTON COUNTY SCRAMBLING TO
OF UNCERTAINTY OF WIND POWER
MEET EMERGING NEEDS IN LIGHT
WOULD RETURN THAT LED TO
OF UNCERTAINTY OF WIND POWER
EMERGENCY ACTIONS FROM DOZENS
WOULD RETURN THAT LED TO
OF NONPROFITS AS WELL AS
EMERGENCY ACTIONS FROM DOZENS
MEDICAL STAFF AND REMEDIATION
OF NONPROFITS AS WELL AS
STRATEGIES ON AN ALREADY
MEDICAL STAFF AND REMEDIATION
STRETCHED SYSTEM, FOR EXAMPLE,
STRATEGIES ON AN ALREADY
CAN ESTABLISH EMERGENCY FOOD
STRETCHED SYSTEM, FOR EXAMPLE,
DISTRIBUTION DISTRIBUTING OVER
CAN ESTABLISH EMERGENCY FOOD
SEVEN THOUSAND POUNDS OF FOOD
DISTRIBUTION DISTRIBUTING OVER
AND OVER FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
SEVEN THOUSAND POUNDS OF FOOD
IN GIFT CARDS.
AND OVER FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
THE CITY IN PARTNERSHIP WITH
IN GIFT CARDS.
AND IN OTHER PARTNERS ALSO SET
THE CITY IN PARTNERSHIP WITH
UP SEVERAL WARMING CENTERS
AND IN OTHER PARTNERS ALSO SET
INCLUDING OVERNIGHT WARMING
UP SEVERAL WARMING CENTERS
CENTERS ONE OF WHICH WAS AT THE
INCLUDING OVERNIGHT WARMING
NBA CENTER WHICH IS ONE OF THE
CENTERS ONE OF WHICH WAS AT THE
FEW RESILIENCY WITH
NBA CENTER WHICH IS ONE OF THE
EXPECTATIONS THAT SEVERE
FEW RESILIENCY WITH
WEATHER WILL ONLY BECOME MORE
EXPECTATIONS THAT SEVERE
VOLATILE.
WEATHER WILL ONLY BECOME MORE
WE ARE FAR FROM EXPERIENCING
VOLATILE.
CHALLENGES TO OUR GRID AND
WE ARE FAR FROM EXPERIENCING
OTHER LIFE SAVING RESOURCES IN
CHALLENGES TO OUR GRID AND
ADDITION TO TACKLING CLIMATE
OTHER LIFE SAVING RESOURCES IN
CHANGE, WE ALSO NEED TO ENSURE
ADDITION TO TACKLING CLIMATE
TOP LEVELS OF ACCOUNTABILITY
CHANGE, WE ALSO NEED TO ENSURE
FROM OUR UTILITY PROVIDERS AS
TOP LEVELS OF ACCOUNTABILITY
WELL AS EXPLORE OPTIONS IN
FROM OUR UTILITY PROVIDERS AS
WHICH TO BUILD COMMUNITY
WELL AS EXPLORE OPTIONS IN
RESILIENCE.
WHICH TO BUILD COMMUNITY
THANK THANK YOU.
RESILIENCE.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JEFF
THANK THANK YOU.
GILKERSON
.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
MAYOR COUNCIL MEMBERS JUST
HEARD MY NAME IS JEFF
WILKERSON.
I'M THE PETITIONER AND
DEVELOPER FOR THE NORTH MAPLE
ROAD APARTMENTS PROJECT THAT IS
ON TONIGHT'S NEW BUSINESS
AGENDA ITEM.
I'M ALSO THE FOUNDER OF A NEW
COLLABORATIVE LOCAL DESIGN
DEVELOPMENT FIRM THAT ALONG
WITH LOCAL ENGINEERING AND
ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES PLAYED A
ROLE IN THE EARLY AND ONGOING
PROJECT DESIGN.
I KNOW THAT THIS IS THE FIRST
READING FOR THIS PUTI REZONING
BUT I WANTED TO TAKE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO INTRODUCE AND
SUMMARIZE THE PROJECT AND TALK
ABOUT SOME OF OUR VARIOUS
FEATURES.
OUR TEAM WORKED DILIGENTLY TO
BLEND ELEMENTS
OF SUSTAINABILITY,
AFFORDABILITY, COMMUNITY
CONNECTIVITY AND ALSO A REDUCED
RELIANCE ON AUTO RELATED
INFRASTRUCTURE.
IN FACT OUR DESIGN HAS AN
APPROXIMATELY 80 PERCENT
PARKING TO UNIT RATIO NOT ONLY
TO THESE DESIGN FEATURES THESE
ARE IMPORTANT TO YOU TO
COLLABORATIVE AS A FIRM BUT WE
ALSO BELIEVE THAT THEY ARE
VALUED BY THE COMMUNITY AND THE
CITY OF ARBOR THROUGH OUR
EFFORTS I BELIEVE THAT WE HAVE
PUT TOGETHER A PROJECT THAT
WILL HAVE A MEANINGFUL IMPACT
ON ADDRESSING THE LACK
OF HOUSING IN THE CITY AS WELL
AS PRODUCING AND ALLOWING FOR
UNITS THAT WILL REMAIN FOREVER
AFFORDABLE AT 60 PERCENT AND MY
LEVEL OF OUR PROJECT IS LOCATED
ON A MAJOR TRUNK LINE THAT HAS
ACCESS TO OTHER PARTS OF THE
CITY AND THE PROJECT INCLUDES A
CLUBHOUSE THAT IS DEDICATED TO
BIKE STORAGE AND MAINTENANCE AS
WELL AS BIKE CHARGING THE
BUILDING ITSELF WILL USE FAR
LESS ENERGY THAN A
TRADITIONALLY DESIGNED
CODE BUILT APARTMENT COMPLEX
AND WE BELIEVE THAT THIS PLAYS
A ROLE IN REDUCING OUR
CARBON FOOTPRINT AND ANGLING
TOWARDS A LESS INTENSIVE
CARBON INTENSIVE FUTURE.
OUR BUILDING WILL BE ALL
ELECTRIFIED.
WE WILL OFFSET A PERCENTAGE
OF OUR ENERGY USAGE THROUGH
PHOTOVOLTAICS AND WE WILL HAVE
A BUILT IN LEVEL OF RESILIENCY
THROUGH A GEOTHERMAL DESIGN
THAT HAS BEEN INCORPORATED INTO
THE COURTYARD AND THE PARKING
LOT AND SO THANK YOU ALL FOR
YOUR TIME AS I INTRODUCE THIS
PROJECT AND ME AND MY TEAM WILL
BE AVAILABLE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PATRICIA
JACKSON.
PATRICIA JACKSON HOLE NUMBER
ENDING IN ONE NINE FOR
PATRICIA
JACKSON PHONE NUMBER FIVE ONE
EIGHT GO AHEAD
PATRICIA
JOHNSON.
GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
YES.
SORRY.
I'M A RESIDENT OF EARHART
YES.
VILLAGE SINCE TWO THOUSAND AND
I'M A RESIDENT OF EARHART
THREE AND I'M ADDRESSING THE
VILLAGE SINCE TWO THOUSAND AND
BOARD TONIGHT REGARDING THE
THREE AND I'M ADDRESSING THE
PLANNED REMOVAL OF TREES AND
BOARD TONIGHT REGARDING THE
BURM AND AGAINST THE PLACEMENT
PLANNED REMOVAL OF TREES AND
OF A SIDEWALK AS PROPOSED BY
BURM AND AGAINST THE PLACEMENT
VILLAGE ROAD TWO THOUSAND THREE
OF A SIDEWALK AS PROPOSED BY
PROJECT AND REQUESTING THE CITY
VILLAGE ROAD TWO THOUSAND THREE
COUNCIL TO REJECT AND ELIMINATE
PROJECT AND REQUESTING THE CITY
THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE
COUNCIL TO REJECT AND ELIMINATE
SIDEWALK PURSUANT TO THE
THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE
VILLAGE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
SIDEWALK PURSUANT TO THE
BOARD RESOLUTION DATED TWO
VILLAGE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
TWENTY FOUR TWENTY THREE WHICH
BOARD RESOLUTION DATED TWO
HAS BEEN PRESENTED TO THE TO
TWENTY FOUR TWENTY THREE WHICH
THE CITY RECENTLY OF THE TREES
HAS BEEN PRESENTED TO THE TO
AND A MODIFICATION IT'S
THE CITY RECENTLY OF THE TREES
CONTRADICTORY TO THE
AND A MODIFICATION IT'S
MAINTENANCE OF THE CITY'S URBAN
CONTRADICTORY TO THE
CANOPY AND CITY OF ANN ARBOR
MAINTENANCE OF THE CITY'S URBAN
FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN.
CANOPY AND CITY OF ANN ARBOR
IN ADDITION, RECENT UNUSUAL
FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN.
WEATHER EVENTS HAVE CONTRIBUTED
IN ADDITION, RECENT UNUSUAL
TO WIDESPREAD DAMAGE TO OTHER
WEATHER EVENTS HAVE CONTRIBUTED
HEALTHY TREES IN THE VILLAGE
TO WIDESPREAD DAMAGE TO OTHER
COMMUNITY IN OUR CITY WIDE AND
HEALTHY TREES IN THE VILLAGE
THE NO CITYWIDE TREE CANOPY,
COMMUNITY IN OUR CITY WIDE AND
ACCORDING TO A 2014 HEALTH
THE NO CITYWIDE TREE CANOPY,
IMPACT ASSESSMENT PREPARED BY
ACCORDING TO A 2014 HEALTH
MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT
IMPACT ASSESSMENT PREPARED BY
OF COMMUNITY HEALTH FOR THE
MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT
CITY OF ANN ARBOR PUBLIC
OF COMMUNITY HEALTH FOR THE
SERVICES PLANNING UNIT A 40
CITY OF ANN ARBOR PUBLIC
PERCENT TREE CANOPY IS
SERVICES PLANNING UNIT A 40
RECOMMENDED FOR MULTIFAMILY
PERCENT TREE CANOPY IS
RESIDENTIAL AREAS WHICH NOW
RECOMMENDED FOR MULTIFAMILY
ONLY AVERAGE TWENTY ONE
RESIDENTIAL AREAS WHICH NOW
PERCENT.
ONLY AVERAGE TWENTY ONE
IN ADDITION TO THESE PUBLIC
PERCENT.
HEALTH CONCERNS, RETIREMENT
IN ADDITION TO THESE PUBLIC
VILLAGE ARE CONCERNED FOR THE
HEALTH CONCERNS, RETIREMENT
GENERAL SAFETY OF THE CHILDREN
VILLAGE ARE CONCERNED FOR THE
AND RESIDENTIAL FAMILIES THAT
GENERAL SAFETY OF THE CHILDREN
CURRENTLY LIVE ALONG THE AND
AND RESIDENTIAL FAMILIES THAT
REMOVAL LIST AND THE IMPACT
CURRENTLY LIVE ALONG THE AND
OF REMOVAL OF THE FOR THE
REMOVAL LIST AND THE IMPACT
SAFETY OF THEIR CHILDREN IS IS
OF REMOVAL OF THE FOR THE
A MAIN CONCERN.
SAFETY OF THEIR CHILDREN IS IS
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
A MAIN CONCERN.
LISTENING TO MY CONCERNS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
THANK YOU.
LISTENING TO MY CONCERNS.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RALPH
THANK YOU.
MARCUS
RALPH MARCUS PHONE
NUMBER AND AGAIN ONE FIVE NINE
OH GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING, MAYOR, COUNCILMEN
AND COUNCIL PERSON.
MY NAME IS RALPH MARCUS AND I
REPRESENT OUR HOPE VILLAGE
ASSOCIATION.
ONE HUNDRED SEVENTY FOUR UNIT
OWNERS THERE ARE MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY THEY'RE REQUESTING TO
SPEAK TONIGHT OR WATCHING OR ON
THE CALL WE ASKED TO HAVE THEM
PUT IN THE ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT'S PLAN FOR THE
SIDEWALK CONTEMPLATED WITH THE
ERHART TWENTY TWENTY THREE
RECONSTRUCTION PRIOR TO THOSE
PLANS BEING CONSULTED AND
SUBMITTED AND WE WERE NOT
ALLOWED TO HAVE THAT
OPPORTUNITY.
WE HAVE ASKED TO BE FORMALLY
ADVISED OF THE PROCESS IN FACT
FOR A PLAN TO THE PRELIMINARY
PLAN AND QUITE FRANKLY NO ONE
FROM THE CITY HAS RESPONDED BY
MAKING THIS PROCESS A LITTLE
UNFRIENDLY, NECESSITATING THE
USE OF THE ASSOCIATION'S LAWYER
AT A COST TO THE ASSOCIATION TO
GAIN THE ATTENTION OF FOLKS IN
THE CITY AND WE RATHER PROCEED
IN THAT FASHION.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY IT'S COME TO
THAT.
WE'VE ASKED SOMEONE TO PROVIDE
A WRITTEN RESPONSE TO THE PATH
OF THE MEETINGS AND SCHEDULE
FOR PROCESSING AND APPROVING
THE PROJECT AND WE'VE ASKED FOR
THOSE QUITE WE'VE SUBMITTED
THOSE QUESTIONS TO YOU ALL IN
WRITING AGAIN, WE'VE NOT HAD
ANY RESPONSE.
WE'VE MADE PRESENTATIONS AT THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION AND
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
SOME OF THE RESPONSES THAT TOOK
PLACE IN THOSE MEETINGS WERE
JUST INACCURATE OR UNTRUE
STATEMENTS BY THE FOLKS ON
THOSE COMMISSIONS AND I DON'T
BLAME THEM BUT THEY JUST DON'T
HAVE
THE NECESSARY FACTS IN
FRONT OF THEM.
WE HAVE PRESENTED OBJECTIVE
RATIONALE TO WHY THE PLAN
SIDEWALK ON THE EASTERN SIDE
OF AIRPORT ROAD IS JUST ANOTHER
UNCONNECTED SIDEWALK TO NOWHERE
PROBABLY IN PERPETUITY.
THE SIDEWALK CAN'T BE PLACED AS
WE UNDERSTAND FROM THE BOTSFORD
CEMETERY.
YOU CANNOT MOVE THE COMPLICATED
UTILITY EQUIPMENT ON THE NORTH
END OF OUR PROPERTY.
THERE'S CONSERVATION MOVEMENT
THAT HAS A PARTIAL SIDEWALK
WHICH WOULD HAVE TO BE
RECONSTRUCTED AND THAT IS WHERE
THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO
DECIDE WHAT'S ALREADY THERE.
BUT PART OF IT IS THE PART
THAT'S NOT AND THERE'S A
RESTRICTION IN THAT RECORDED
CONSERVATION EASEMENT WHICH
PRECLUDES CONSTRUCTION ON THAT
PROPERTY ALSO THERE'S NOT ANY
SIDEWALK APPARENTLY BEING
CONTEMPLATED BETWEEN THE TWO
PINE BRAY STREET.
SO WE'RE KIND OF AT A LOSS AS
TO WHY THE SIDEWALK HAS BECOME
SO IMPORTANT TO THE ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT IF IT WAS TO BE
CONSTRUCTED A SIDEWALK WOULD
DAMAGE CRITICAL ROOT TREE ROOT
AND ACTUALLY REMOVE ABOUT SEVEN
TREES AND HAVE TO HAVE
PROTECTION FOR A NUMBER
OF THIRTY OR FORTY.
AND WE THINK THAT THERE'S
PROBABLY ABOUT 30 TREES IN
TOTAL THAT WOULD HAVE TO BE
REMOVED.
THE PRELIMINARY ROAD
IMPROVEMENT PLAN THAT WAS
PRESENTED BY ENGINEERING SHOWS
AND I WANT EVERYONE TO TAKE
NOTE OF THIS ON PAGE TWENTY
ONE, TWENTY SEVEN AND FORTY
THAT THE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
HAS THIS SIDEWALK WHICH IS
SUPPOSED TO BE IN THE RIGHT
AWAY EXTENDING INTO THE PRIVATE
PROPERTY OF THEIR VILLAGE.
I CAN ASSURE YOU THAT OUR
VILLAGE HAS ABSOLUTELY NO
INTENTION OF PROVIDING ANY
AUTHORITY FOR THE SIDEWALK TO
BE ON ITS PRIVATE PROPERTY AND
WE DO NOT WANT THE SIDEWALK
CONSTRUCTED AS STATED EARLIER,
THERE ARE TREES THAT WOULD BE
DAMAGED OUR
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
LISA RITSCH.
LISA REACH FOR NUMBER EIGHT
FOUR ONE CRESTAR SIX ON YOUR
PHONE.
GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS LISA.
I'M ALSO A RESIDENT OF THEIR
VILLAGE AND I AM OPPOSED TO THE
SIDEWALK.
I DON'T THINK THE CITY HAS
LISTENED TO HER AND I DON'T
THINK OUR COUNCIL MEMBERS HAVE
REPRESENTED US WELL.
YOU KEEP REFERRING BACK TO
THREE HUNDRED REVIEWS THAT YOU
HAD FROM LOCAL RESIDENTS
REGARDING THIS PROJECT FROM
TWENTY NINETEEN I BELIEVE IT IS
AT WHICH POINT THE SIDEWALK WAS
NOT EVEN A FACTOR AND YOU SAY
NOBODY OPPOSED THE SIDEWALK?
WELL NOBODY OPPOSED IT BECAUSE
IT WASN'T EVEN A FACTOR IN THAT
PROJECT.
SO THAT'S A RIDICULOUS ARGUMENT
ON THE BEHALF OF THE CITY.
THERE'S PLENTY OF AREA IN THE
THE EXISTING ROADWAY TO PUT IN
TWO LANES OF ROAD TO BIKE LANES
AND IF YOU MUST HAVE A SIDEWALK
PUT IT IN THE EXISTING AREA.
YOU SAID YOU CAN'T MOVE THE
CURB.
WELL, I THINK YOU CAN AND IN
THE WAY THAT OUR GOVERNOR SAYS
THINGS MOVE THE DAM CURB IF YOU
MUST HAVE A SIDEWALK DON'T
IMPOSE ON THE RESIDENTS OF OUR
VILLAGE.
SEE IS ALSO A FACTOR HERE AND
THAT WAS REQUESTED BY THE THREE
HUNDRED REPORTS THAT YOU GOT
BACK FROM TWENTY NINETEEN AND I
DON'T BELIEVE THAT THE
ROUNDABOUT WILL REDUCE THE
SPEED SO I AM REQUESTING THAT
THE SPEED LIMIT BE REDUCED TO
THIRTY MILES PER HOUR LIKE IT
IS ON GLACIER WAY AS OPPOSED TO
THE THIRTY FIVE MILES AN HOUR
THAT IT IS NOW AND I ALSO HOPE
THAT IN THIS WHOLE PROJECT YOU
ADDRESS GREENHILL SCHOOL AND
OUR ABILITY TO EXIT AND ENTER
OUR DRIVEWAY WITHOUT
OBSTRUCTION DURING DROP OFF AND
PICK UP TIME.
AT THIS POINT WE ARE HOSTAGES
IN OUR OWN PARKING LOT BECAUSE
OF DOUBLE PARKING AND PEOPLE
PICKING UP AND DROPPING OFF
PEOPLE AT GREENHILL SCHOOL THAT
HAS NEVER BEEN ADDRESSED.
I THANK YOU FOR LISTENING AND I
SINCERELY HOPE THAT CITY
COUNCIL LISTENS TO THE
RESIDENTS OF THEIR VILLAGE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LARRY
MENDOZA COUNCIL.
THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME TO
SPEAK.
I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT A GOLF
ISSUE WE'RE HAVING.
MY ISSUE COMPARED PALES IN
COMPARISON TO NO ENERGY BUT
IT'S IMPORTANT TO ME AND IT'S
IMPORTANT TO 50 OTHER SENIOR
GOLFERS AT PLAY AT LESLI PARK
IN 2009 YOU ADOPTED A
RESOLUTION THAT SET RATES AND
RESTRICTIONS FOR SEASON PASSES
AND GREENPEACE THAT SINCE THAT
TIME THE GREENPEACE BEEN
AMENDED FIVE TIMES EACH TIME BY
COUNCIL APPROVAL SEASON PASSES
HAVE NEVER BEEN BROUGHT FORWARD
FOR AMENDMENT THEY REMAIN YOU
ADOPTED THEM IN 2009.
THIS YEAR AMENDMENTS WERE MADE
BY STAFF THAT CHANGE THE
ORIGINAL INTENTION OF THE
ADOPTED RESOLUTION.
FOR EXAMPLE, SENIOR SEASON
PASSES SPECIFICALLY ALLOWED WE
CAN PLAY FOR SENIOR GOLFERS THE
COMMENTARY SECTION SPECIFIC IS
NOW AVAILABLE FOR USE ON
WEEKENDS THIS YEAR.
PARK STAFF CHANGE THAT POLICY
SO THAT SENIORS CAN NO LONGER
PLAY ON THE WEEKENDS.
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO PLAY AT
LESLIE PARK ON SATURDAY AND
SUNDAY UNLESS WE PAY THE DAILY
FEE OR BUY A FULL SEASON PASS
WHICH COSTS FOUR HUNDRED
DOLLARS MORE OR SIXTY SEVEN
PERCENT INCREASE SENIOR ARE THE
ONLY ONES IMPACTED WITH THESE
COST INCREASES THAT IS RIGHT.
THE THE CHANGE I BELIEVE IS NOT
IN LINE WITH THE ORIGINAL
INTENTION THE COUNCIL ADOPTED
IN THIS RESOLUTION.
THE SECOND CHANGE THAT WAS MADE
WAS TO LIMIT THE USE OF THE
FULL PASS A FULL PASS THROUGH
ALLOWED USERS TO PLAY SEVEN
DAYS A WEEK ANY TIME NOW PARKS
IS SAYING YOU CANNOT PLAY ON
WEEKENDS TILL AFTER TWELVE.
YOU THINK THAT'S NO BIG DEAL.
BUT THE RESOLUTION SPECIFICALLY
STATES IT'S A FULL PASS.
IT DOES NOT ALLOW FOR
RESTRICTIONS FOR ME THE COST I
ESTIMATE TO PLAY ON THE
WEEKENDS BECAUSE I PLAY IN THE
MORNINGS WILL BE FIFTEEN
HUNDRED DOLLARS.
I WILL GLADLY PAY THAT I WANT
TO PAY THAT SOMEWHERE ELSE IF I
HAVE TO BECAUSE I FEEL THAT
PASSIONATE ABOUT THE CHANGE
THAT HAS BEEN MADE THAT IS NOT
RIGHT.
AND AGAIN THE CHANGE THE FULL
PASS DOES NOT MEET THE ORIGINAL
INTENTION OF THE RESOLUTION
THAT YOU ADOPTED.
ANOTHER CHANGE CHANGES THE
ORIGINAL RESOLUTION INCLUDED
MONTHLY SENIOR OF FULL AND
WEEKDAY PASSES.
THOSE HAVE NOT BEEN OFFERED THE
FOUR YEARS THAT I'VE IN AN HOUR
I DON'T KNOW WHERE THEY WENT
THIS THE RESOLUTION YOU ADOPTED
ALLOWS IT BUT THEY DISAPPEARED.
I THINK THEY NEED TO BE
REINSTATED AND OFFERED TO THE
GOLFER'S AS ALLOWED BY THE
RESOLUTION.
I BELIEVE THAT THE RESOLUTION
BINDS THE PARK STAFF TO OFFER
WHAT WAS PRESENTED AND APPROVED
STAFF SHOULD NOT BE ALLOWED TO
CHANGE THE ORIGINAL INTENT
OF ANY RESOLUTION THAT YOU
ADOPT.
THE CHANGES CURRENTLY MADE BY
PASS WERE NEVER PRESENTED TO
THE PUBLIC AND WE HOPE THAT YOU
DO SOMETHING ABOUT TRYING TO
GET THESE BACK IN ORDER.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RETURN RUSS
READER US PHONE NUMBER ENDING A
NINE SIX THREE.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO MY NAME IS MUNIRA.
I RESIDE AT SEVEN EIGHT TO
GREENHILLS FIVE AND REPRESENT
AREHART VILLAGE HOMES
ASSOCIATION AS EXPRESSED
I WANT
THE COUNCIL TO BE ADVISED THAT
ERHART VILLAGE IN NO MANNER,
SHAPE OR FORM PROPOSES OR
PROVIDES THAT THE CITY OF THE
NARBERTH WITH ANY PERMISSION TO
TRESPASS ONTO OUR PRIVATE
PROPERTY FOR THE CONSTRUCTION
OF A CONTENTLY AND UNWANTED
SIDEWALK A PROPERLY CIRCULATED
DOCUMENTED PETITION OF OVER ONE
HUNDRED RESIDENTS OF OUR
VILLAGE HAS BEEN FORMALLY
SUBMITTED ALONG WITH A BOARD
RESOLUTION AND WRITING
COVER LETTER OBJECTING TO THE
SUBJECT SIDEWALK.
WE ASK A CLASS TO ACCEPT THE
PETITION AND THE ACCOMPANYING
DOCUMENT NEEDS TO BE REPAID.
IT JUST DOESN'T NEED TO HAVE
SIDEWALKS TO NOWHERE DEALT WITH
WITH WHICH WILL BE A DRAMATIC
WASTE OF CITY RESOURCES AND
WILL ULTIMATELY LEAD TO
SIGNIFICANT DAMAGE TO THE
PROPERTY OF AREHART VILLAGE
THAT OUR REASONABLE REQUEST
MUST BE ACCOMMODATED AS THEY
HAVE NOT BEEN SO FAR.
WE CERTAINLY ARE POSITIONED
WITH LEGAL COUNSEL TO PROTECT
THE INTERESTS OF OUR RESIDENTS
NOTWITHSTANDING WE WOULD RATHER
COLLABORATE WITH THE CITY FOR
AN AMICABLE SOLUTION AND INVITE
ALL PARTIES TO A MEETING TO
RECONSIDER THE EXISTING PLAN.
I'M MOST CONCERNED ABOUT THE
FACT THAT WE HAVE ATTENDED ALL
THE COMMUNITY MEETINGS
REGARDING THIS PROJECT
BEGINNING APRIL TWO THOUSAND
NINETEEN THROUGH DECEMBER
TWENTY TWENTY TWO TO EXPRESS
OUR OPPOSITION TO THE
CONSTRUCTION OF THE SIDEWALK WE
HAVE WRITTEN TO THE MAYOR, TO
THE CITY ATTORNEY, THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR, THE PUBLIC
SERVICE MANAGER, PLANNING
MANAGER, COUNCIL PERSON,
ANOTHER AND NO ONE NOT ONE
PERSON HAS RESPONDED TO US.
WE HAVE PERMITTED DURING THE
MOST RECENT PLANNING AND
TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE
MEETINGS AND WE HAVE BEEN LEFT
DISMAYED BY THE INADEQUATE
RESPONSES OF SOME OF THE
COMMISSIONERS AND ENGINEERING
PERSONNEL.
WE PAY OUR TAXES.
WHERE IS OUR REPRESENTATION?
WE BELIEVE THE PROPOSED
SIDEWALK IS UNNECESSARY BECAUSE
THE SIDEWALKS ALREADY EXIST ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE STREET
AND THERE IS NO REQUIREMENT IN
ANN ARBOR FOR SIDEWALKS ON BOTH
SIDES THE STREET YOU'VE ALREADY
HEARD ABOUT THE MANY GAPS THAT
WOULD EXIST BETWEEN THE TIME
GRAY STREETS IN FRONT
OF BOTSFORD CEMETERY AND OUR
CONSERVATION EASEMENT AND WE DO
NOT BELIEVE THAT THE NINETEEN
SEVENTY TWO SANITARY SEWER
EASEMENT PREVIOUSLY GRANTED
GIVES THE CITY THE AUTHORITY TO
CONSTRUCT OUR PRIVATE PROPERTY
OUR ISIS CERTIFIED KABRA NOTED
IN HIS RECENT INSPECTION THAT
NOT ONLY WILL AN UNSIGHTLY
RETAINING WALL BE REQUIRED DUE
TO THE GRADE BUT REMOVING LARGE
TREE ROOTS CAN MAKE OUR
REMAINING TREES UNSTABLE AND A
HAZARD TO THE HOMES BEHIND
THEM.
THE CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY WILL
STRESS THE REMAINING TREES,
MAKING THEM SUSCEPTIBLE TO
INSECTS AND DISEASES CAUSING
DEATH AND DECLINE.
AND ON TOP OF THAT THE TREE
CANOPY IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD HAS
ALREADY BEEN SEVERELY IMPACTED
BY THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE
CONCORD PINES SUBDIVISION WHERE
OVER ONE THOUSAND TREES WERE
RECENTLY DESTROYED.
WE BELIEVE THE CITY'S PLANT
WILL DISMISS THE MINIATURE
LIVABLE COMMUNITY BY INCREASING
AIR AND NOISE POLLUTION STORM
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOTION
UNSOLVABLE MASAFUMI.
HELLO ANN ARBOR.
DID YOU HEAR PEOPLE WERE
SPEAKING?
I HEARD IT MULTIPLE TIMES.
YOU PEOPLE ON THIS CITY COUNCIL
DO NOT REPRESENT THIS PUBLIC.
YOU KNOW WHO THEY REPRESENT.
THEY REPRESENT THE MONEY THAT
WENT INTO THEIR CAMPAIGNS AND
GOT THEM TO SIT RIGHT OVER HERE
AND TELL US WHAT TO DO AND WHAT
NOT TO DO.
THEY DO NOT REPRESENT ANN
ARBOR.
THEY REPRESENT THE RICH IN THIS
TOWN WHO GET TO SAY WHAT GOES
ON AND WHAT DOESN'T BECAUSE
THEY GOT PAID FOR THEIR
CAMPAIGN BIG HUGE CAMPAIGN
SUPPORT THAT THEY GOT.
BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT I'M HERE
FOR.
I'M HERE TO TELL YOU THE AMOUNT
OF SUFFERING THAT YOU ENDURED
IN THE PAST FEW WEEKS BECAUSE
OF ELECTRICITY, DISCONNECTION,
ET CETERA, ET CETERA DOES NOT
COMPARE EVEN THE SLIGHTEST TO
THE AMOUNT OF TORTURE,
ELECTRICITY LESS DAYS IT THE
TORTURE AND MURDER
OF PALESTINIANS THAT YOUR TAX
DOLLARS EVERY YEAR PURCHASES
EVERY YEAR AMERICAN TAX DOLLARS
PAYS THE APARTHEID STATE
OF ISRAEL FOUR BILLION DOLLARS
.
THAT MONEY GOES INTO CUTTING
PEOPLE'S ACCESS TO WATER AND
ELECTRICITY OFF TORTURING
PEOPLE ON THE STREETS, SHOOTING
YOUNG PEOPLE ETC. ETC. SO THAT
WAS THE BACKGROUND LAST TIME
WHEN I WAS HERE.
MISS AISHA COSBY DECLARED THAT
SHE IS A MEMBER OF THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION IN THIS TOWN
AND SHE HAS NEVER SEEN THIS
PROPOSAL WHICH WE HAVE BEEN
BRINGING HERE FOR TWENTY YEARS
THAT WE WANT NO MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL.
WE ARE AGAINST MILITARY AID TO
WE HAVE BEEN ASKING FOR THIS TO
ISRAEL.
BE APPROVED BY THIS CITY
WE HAVE BEEN ASKING FOR THIS TO
COUNCIL NEEDS.
BE APPROVED BY THIS CITY
SHE SAYS THAT SHE HAS NEVER
COUNCIL NEEDS.
SEEN THAT COME TO THE CITY
SHE SAYS THAT SHE HAS NEVER
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
SEEN THAT COME TO THE CITY
WELL, THAT TELLS ME ONE THING
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
SHE HAS NO IDEA WHAT GOES ON IN
WELL, THAT TELLS ME ONE THING
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION AND SHE
SHE HAS NO IDEA WHAT GOES ON IN
ALSO TOLD IT IT ALSO TELLS ME
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION AND SHE
SHE HAS ABSOLUTELY NO CARE FOR
ALSO TOLD IT IT ALSO TELLS ME
ANY KIND OF HUMAN RIGHTS LEAST
SHE HAS ABSOLUTELY NO CARE FOR
OF ALL PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
ANY KIND OF HUMAN RIGHTS LEAST
AND THOSE ARE THE REASONS WHY
OF ALL PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
SHE'S SITTING ON THAT CHAIR AND
AND THOSE ARE THE REASONS WHY
THOSE ARE THE REASONS WHY SHE
SHE'S SITTING ON THAT CHAIR AND
SITTING ON HUMAN RIGHTS
THOSE ARE THE REASONS WHY SHE
COMMISSION BECAUSE SHE'S
SITTING ON HUMAN RIGHTS
CLUELESS AND SHE CARES NOTHING
COMMISSION BECAUSE SHE'S
FOR HUMAN RIGHTS.
CLUELESS AND SHE CARES NOTHING
IF SHE DID, SHE WOULD KNOW THAT
FOR HUMAN RIGHTS.
WE DID GO HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN
IF SHE DID, SHE WOULD KNOW THAT
RIGHTS COMMISSION IN 2009
WE DID GO HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN
EXACTLY WHEN SHE SAID SHE WAS
RIGHTS COMMISSION IN 2009
ON THAT COMMISSION AND WE
EXACTLY WHEN SHE SAID SHE WAS
DEMANDED MULTIPLE TIMES IF SHE
ON THAT COMMISSION AND WE
CARED ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS SHE
DEMANDED MULTIPLE TIMES IF SHE
WOULD KNOW THAT THE TOP TOP
CARED ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS SHE
ISSUE OF HUMAN RIGHTS
WOULD KNOW THAT THE TOP TOP
COMMUNITIES ALL OVER THE WORLD
ISSUE OF HUMAN RIGHTS
IS THE PALESTINIAN HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMUNITIES ALL OVER THE WORLD
.
IS THE PALESTINIAN HUMAN RIGHTS
AND IF SHE CARED ABOUT HUMAN
.
RIGHTS SHE WOULD BRING HER OWN
AND IF SHE CARED ABOUT HUMAN
RESOLUTION TO PROTECT THE
RIGHTS SHE WOULD BRING HER OWN
PEOPLE OF PALESTINE.
RESOLUTION TO PROTECT THE
SHE DOESN'T GIVE A RAT'S ABOUT
PEOPLE OF PALESTINE.
HUMAN RIGHTS OR ABOUT THE
SHE DOESN'T GIVE A RAT'S ABOUT
COMMISSION.
HUMAN RIGHTS OR ABOUT THE
SHE'S HERE BECAUSE SHE'S BEEN
COMMISSION.
HAND-PICKED BY POWERFUL
SHE'S HERE BECAUSE SHE'S BEEN
ZIONISTS IN THIS TOWN TO SIT
HAND-PICKED BY POWERFUL
AND SAY NOTHING.
ZIONISTS IN THIS TOWN TO SIT
IN FACT HER IGNORANCE AND HER
AND SAY NOTHING.
CARELESSNESS AND HER
IN FACT HER IGNORANCE AND HER
HEARTLESSNESS IS WHY SHE'S HERE
CARELESSNESS AND HER
AND WE NEED BETTER PEOPLE THAN
HEARTLESSNESS IS WHY SHE'S HERE
THAT.
AND WE NEED BETTER PEOPLE THAN
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
THAT.
COLEMAN.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
CHECK THIS OUT THE HAMTRAMCK
COLEMAN.
CITY COUNCIL JUST APPROVED A
CHECK THIS OUT THE HAMTRAMCK
RESOLUTION FOR PALESTINIAN
CITY COUNCIL JUST APPROVED A
RIGHTS AND AGAINST MILITARY AID
RESOLUTION FOR PALESTINIAN
TO REPRESSIVE GOVERNMENTS AND
RIGHTS AND AGAINST MILITARY AID
AGAINST OCCUPATION AND I DID IT
TO REPRESSIVE GOVERNMENTS AND
IN NO TIME FLAT.
AGAINST OCCUPATION AND I DID IT
THEY DIDN'T SIT ON THEIR FOR
IN NO TIME FLAT.
TWENTY YEARS LIKE THE ANN ARBOR
THEY DIDN'T SIT ON THEIR FOR
CITY COUNCIL HAS DONE.
TWENTY YEARS LIKE THE ANN ARBOR
THEY DIDN'T RUN AND BLOCK AND
CITY COUNCIL HAS DONE.
TACKLE TO PROTECT ISRAEL.
THEY DIDN'T RUN AND BLOCK AND
NO, THEY QUICKLY OPENED THE
TACKLE TO PROTECT ISRAEL.
DOORS TO A PALESTINE HUMAN
NO, THEY QUICKLY OPENED THE
RIGHTS RESOLUTION AS YOU SHOULD
DOORS TO A PALESTINE HUMAN
HAVE DONE TWENTY YEARS AGO AS
RIGHTS RESOLUTION AS YOU SHOULD
YOU SHOULD DO TODAY.
HAVE DONE TWENTY YEARS AGO AS
WHAT DO YOU THINK WHAT DO YOU
YOU SHOULD DO TODAY.
IMAGINE IT DOES TO GENERATIONS
WHAT DO YOU THINK WHAT DO YOU
OF PALESTINIANS CHILDREN EVEN
IMAGINE IT DOES TO GENERATIONS
IN ANN ARBOR, EVEN IN ANN ARBOR
OF PALESTINIANS CHILDREN EVEN
WHEN THEY SEE YOU ARE KILLING
IN ANN ARBOR, EVEN IN ANN ARBOR
THEM WITH YOUR TAX DOLLARS,
WHEN THEY SEE YOU ARE KILLING
WHEN THEY SEE THAT YOU A CITY
THEM WITH YOUR TAX DOLLARS,
COUNCIL ARE EXERCISING MASSIVE,
WHEN THEY SEE THAT YOU A CITY
MASSIVE EFFORTS TO MAKE SURE
COUNCIL ARE EXERCISING MASSIVE,
THAT NO PALESTINIAN RIGHTS
MASSIVE EFFORTS TO MAKE SURE
RESOLUTION WILL EVER, EVER EVEN
THAT NO PALESTINIAN RIGHTS
BE DEBATED ON THIS CITY
RESOLUTION WILL EVER, EVER EVEN
COUNCIL.
BE DEBATED ON THIS CITY
WHAT DO YOU THINK IT DOES TO
COUNCIL.
PALESTINIAN CHILDREN AND
WHAT DO YOU THINK IT DOES TO
PALESTINIAN ADULTS GENERATION
PALESTINIAN CHILDREN AND
AFTER GENERATION WHEN THEY SEE
PALESTINIAN ADULTS GENERATION
YOU DO THIS THEY KNOW THAT YOU
AFTER GENERATION WHEN THEY SEE
ARE RACIST TOWARDS THEM AND YOU
YOU DO THIS THEY KNOW THAT YOU
ARE A GOVERNMENT EXERCISING
ARE RACIST TOWARDS THEM AND YOU
YOUR GOVERNMENTAL POWER.
ARE A GOVERNMENT EXERCISING
YOU'RE NOT SOME SCHMO ON THE
YOUR GOVERNMENTAL POWER.
STREET MAKING A COMMENT.
YOU'RE NOT SOME SCHMO ON THE
YOU ARE THE GOVERNMENT MAKING
STREET MAKING A COMMENT.
SURE THAT THEY GET NO
YOU ARE THE GOVERNMENT MAKING
PROTECTION, NOT EVEN NOT EVEN
SURE THAT THEY GET NO
FROM A LITTLE PALESTINIAN HUMAN
PROTECTION, NOT EVEN NOT EVEN
RIGHTS RESOLUTION.
FROM A LITTLE PALESTINIAN HUMAN
WHAT DO YOU THINK THAT DOES TO
RIGHTS RESOLUTION.
THEM?
WHAT DO YOU THINK THAT DOES TO
AND I HAVEN'T EVEN MENTIONED
THEM?
WHAT DO YOU THINK IT DOES TO
AND I HAVEN'T EVEN MENTIONED
PALESTINIANS IN PALESTINE
WHAT DO YOU THINK IT DOES TO
GETTING MOWED DOWN BY THE
PALESTINIANS IN PALESTINE
THOUSANDS GETTING MURDERED BY
GETTING MOWED DOWN BY THE
THE THOUSANDS WITH YOUR TAX
THOUSANDS GETTING MURDERED BY
DOLLARS AND WITH YOU SITTING IN
THE THOUSANDS WITH YOUR TAX
THESE CHAIRS MAKING SURE THAT
DOLLARS AND WITH YOU SITTING IN
NOT A SINGLE PALESTINIAN HUMAN
THESE CHAIRS MAKING SURE THAT
RIGHTS RESOLUTION WILL EVER BE
NOT A SINGLE PALESTINIAN HUMAN
DEBATED BY THIS COUNCIL?
RIGHTS RESOLUTION WILL EVER BE
WHAT DO YOU THINK IT DOES TO
DEBATED BY THIS COUNCIL?
PALESTINIANS IN PALESTINE?
WHAT DO YOU THINK IT DOES TO
IT'S CLEAR AFTER TWENTY YEARS
PALESTINIANS IN PALESTINE?
THAT YOU DON'T GIVE A GOOD GOD
IT'S CLEAR AFTER TWENTY YEARS
WHAT HAPPENS TO PALESTINIANS IN
THAT YOU DON'T GIVE A GOOD GOD
PALESTINE IN ANN ARBOR OR
WHAT HAPPENS TO PALESTINIANS IN
ANYWHERE.
PALESTINE IN ANN ARBOR OR
AND REMEMBER YOU ARE THE
ANYWHERE.
GOVERNMENT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
AND REMEMBER YOU ARE THE
GOVERNMENT ACTION WHICH KILLS
GOVERNMENT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
PALESTINIANS.
GOVERNMENT ACTION WHICH KILLS
THAT'S RACISM, RACISM IS NOT A
PALESTINIANS.
CARTOON COMPLAINING ABOUT HOW
THAT'S RACISM, RACISM IS NOT A
ISRAEL KILLS PALESTINIANS
CARTOON COMPLAINING ABOUT HOW
RACISM IS WHEN YOU ARE KILLING
ISRAEL KILLS PALESTINIANS
PALESTINIANS AND YOU ARE THE
RACISM IS WHEN YOU ARE KILLING
GOVERNMENT THAT'S RACISM.
PALESTINIANS AND YOU ARE THE
RACISM IS WHEN YOU HAVE TO GIVE
GOVERNMENT THAT'S RACISM.
YOUR CHILD THE TALK BECAUSE THE
RACISM IS WHEN YOU HAVE TO GIVE
AUTHORITIES MIGHT KILL HIM.
YOUR CHILD THE TALK BECAUSE THE
EVERY BLACK PARENT KNOWS ABOUT
AUTHORITIES MIGHT KILL HIM.
THE TALK FROM MASSACHUSETTS TO
EVERY BLACK PARENT KNOWS ABOUT
MISSISSIPPI.
THE TALK FROM MASSACHUSETTS TO
DO YOU
?
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PATRICK
SCOTT
.
SHAME ON YOU.
SHAME ON
PATRICK SCOTT.
PHONE NUMBER SIX THREE FIVE
CRESTAR SIX ON YOUR PHONE.
GO AHEAD.
I WAS CALLING REGARDING THE
ENERGY COMMISSION RESOLUTION
REGARDING YES.
PLEASE CONTINUE THE RESOLUTION
POWERFULLY AND CLEARLY DEEP
ONGOING ISSUE.
CITY RESIDENTS HAVE A DTG IT IS
A STRONG ATTEMPT AT A PATH
TOWARDS REGULATING A
CORPORATION THAT CONTINUES TO
ACT IN ITS OWN BEST INTERESTS,
NOT THOSE OF THE RESIDENTS
OF AN AMA.
HOWEVER, REQUIRING TO ATTEND
COMMISSION MEETINGS TO REPORT
ON ITS PROGRESS MAY IN THE END
BE THE SAME AS GIVING BP A SEAT
AT THE PROVERBIAL TABLE AND
ACCESS IT MAY USE TO EXERT ITS
INFLUENCE ON THE COMMISSION
WHAT MAY BE NEARLY AS BAD FOR
THE CITY AND THE COMMISSION IS
THE PERCEPTION THAT BP HAS BEEN
GIVEN A SEAT AT THE TABLE
BECAUSE EVERYONE KNOWS THAT ITS
ULTIMATE GOAL IS NOT TO PROVIDE
POWER OR AMAZING SERVICE TO THE
PEOPLE IN ANN ARBOR DEEDES
ULTIMATE GOAL BECAUSE IT'S A
CORPORATION IS TO MAKE AS MUCH
MONEY FOR ITS CEO AND
SHAREHOLDERS AS IT POSSIBLY
CAN.
WE HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT FROM
BP'S POINT OF VIEW ANN ARBOR IS
MERELY A SOLIDLY STORM PROOFED
POWER LINE REENFORCE TO
WITHSTAND THE HARSHEST STORMS
SO IT MAY RELIABLY TRANSMIT
FROM CITY RESIDENTS TO BP CEO
AND SHAREHOLDERS.
THEY RELY ON ACCESS TO
POLITICAL POWER TO KEEP THAT
INFRASTRUCTURE IN PLACE.
IF THE GOAL OF THIS RESOLUTION
IS TO CREATE MORE
ACCOUNTABILITY AND THE
PERCEPTION OF MORE
ACCOUNTABILITY GIVING ACCESS TO
POLITICAL POWER OR THE
PERCEPTION OF ACCESS TO
POLITICAL POWER ONLY CREATE THE
APPEARANCE OR THE REALITY THAT
AS WE PUT IN AN EVEN BETTER
POSITION TO EXERT ITS INFLUENCE
OVER LOCAL ENERGY POLICY.
THANKS FOR YOUR CONTINUED WORK
ON BEHALF OF MY FAMILY AND THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RITA
MITCHELL
.
RITA MITCHELL PHONE NUMBER ONE
NINE FOUR.
GO AHEAD RITA MITCHELL I LIVE
AT SIX TWENTY ONE FOURTH STREET
AND I AM IN ENVIRONMENTAL
CONDITIONS BUT I'M SPEAKING FOR
MYSELF TONIGHT.
I WANT TO ENCOURAGE ALL
HOUSEHOLDS AND BUSINESSES TO
CONTACT THE MARYLAND PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION BECAUSE AS
YOU'RE CONSIDERING IN ADDITION
D.C. FIVE TONIGHT ELECTRICITY
IS AN ESSENTIAL SERVICE AND
DOES NOT DESERVE THE REQUESTED
RATE INCREASE THAT IT HAS MADE
IN OUR HAVE THE
EXPERIENCE TO
BACK TO BACK POWER OUTAGES IN
THE LAST TWO WEEKS TRIGGERED BY
ICE AND WET SNOW BUT ACTUALLY
CAUSED BY POORLY MAINTAINED
INFRASTRUCTURE DEFERRED
MAINTENANCE IN AT TWENTY TWENTY
TWO YEAR AND URINATES
CONFERENCE CALL YOU CAN FIND IT
BY GOING ITS EARNING CAPITAL
AND THE PAGES OF IT ON WHICH
DEFERRED MAINTENANCE IS
HIGHLIGHTED AS A FUTURE
OF EARNINGS FOR TWENTY TWENTY
AND IT'S PLANNED FOR TWENTY
TWENTY THREE.
WE'RE LUCKY HERE WE WERE COLD
BUT SAFE BUT SAFE AND CONCERNED
.
WE ONLY HAD EIGHTY HOURS
WITHOUT ELECTRICITY OVER THE
TWO OF THEM I WITNESSED FIRST
HAND A WIRE THAT DROPPED TO THE
GROUND BEHIND OUR HOUSE ON
FRIDAY MARCH 3RD THAT'S PARKED
THROUGHOUT THE NIGHT UNTIL NOON
ON SATURDAY.
FIREFIGHTERS ASSESS THE
SITUATION EARLY ON DETERMINED
THAT IT WAS NOT CRITICAL AND
CALL DUTY.
THAT WASN'T TO BE A REPAIR A
SAFETY STAFFER SAT IN A CAR
IDLING AT OF A DEAD END STREET
WATCHING IT BUZZWIRE TO BE SURE
THAT PEOPLE DID NOT APPROACH
THE UNSAFE WIRE AT NOON ON
SATURDAY THE POWER WAS AND THE
REPAIR POWER WAS COMPLETED
TWENTY FOUR HOURS LATER ON
SUNDAY WE HEARD ABOUT PEOPLE'S
LOSS OF WORK EXPENSES, SPOILED
FOOD AND OBTAINING FOOD THAT
DID NOT NEED TO BE COOKED
DURING THE OUTAGE AS WELL
OF COURSE FOR HOTEL ROOMS WHEN
AVAILABLE MANY OF WHICH WERE
PROCESSED.
PLEASE ADD THE COST OF ANOTHER
FIREFIGHTER TIME THAT WAS NOT
AVAILABLE FOR OTHER FIRE
EMERGENCIES IN THE CITY DUE TO
THE NEED TO CHECK ON THE MANY
DOWNED WIRES.
THE COST OF WARMING CENTERS AND
OTHER EMERGENCY SERVICES IN THE
CITY.
THOSE COSTS ADD UP AND THEY
SHOULD BE CHARGED DIRECTLY TO
DUTY.
WE APPRECIATE THE SERVICE
OF ALL THE TECHNICIANS AND
ELECTRICIANS WHO HELPED RETURN
OUR TOWN.
WE'RE NOT PLEASED WITH HOW D.C.
MANAGEMENT APPEARS TO DEPEND ON
IGNORING MAINTENANCE TO GAIN
THE FINANCIAL RETURN FOR ITS
INVESTORS AND SIMULTANEOUSLY
ASK FOR HIGHER RATES IN BRIDGE
MAGAZINE IT IS REPORTED ON
FEBRUARY 27TH THAT DC SUED FOR
PERMISSION TO INCREASE ITS
YEARLY REVENUES BY SIXTY TWO
MILLION DOLLARS, REPRESENTING A
14 PERCENT RESIDENTIAL RATE
INCREASE AT THE SAME TIME IT
REPORTED A ONE POINT ONE
DOLLARS BUILDING TO ITS
INVESTORS WHAT THE HECK FOR
MPAC ON THE MARKET?
WHAT'S ON THAT PAGE SEARCH FOR
CASE NUMBER YOU TWO ONE TWO
NINE SEVEN.
CLICK ON SUBMIT COMMENT AND
TELL THE EMPLOYEE TO DENY THE
RATE INCREASE REQUESTED BY DC
INSTEAD OF PROCEDURES TO MAKE
BP ACCOUNTABLE TO ITS CUSTOMERS
AHEAD OF ITS INVESTIGATION.
I AGREE WITH THE RESOLUTION
THAT YOU CONSIDERING TONIGHT
AND AGREE WITH THE PRIOR
SPEAKERS THAT YOU REMOVE THE
RESOLVE CLAUSE RELATING TO DUTY
AS A REGULAR PARTICIPANT IN THE
ENERGY POSITION.
IT SHOULD NOT INFLUENCE OUR
ENERGY COMMISSION
RECOMMENDATION.
THEY'RE EXTREMELY GOOD AT
CRAFTING INFLUENCE UNLESS THE
JUDGE SAID THE ACTUAL SERVICES
ARE FIRST 15 SPEAKERS HAVING
SPOKEN TO US AND PROVIDED OUR
PUBLIC COMMENT WITHIN OR YOU
KNOW, TIME LESS THAN THE FORTY
FIVE MINUTE PERIOD WE NOW GO ON
WITH PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DANIEL
ROKKE
.
I'M A LAW STUDENT HERE AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
I LIVE AT STATE STREET VILLAGE
APARTMENTS AND PART OF THE
REASON WHY I'M HERE TODAY IS
BECAUSE I'VE LIVED IN A LOT
OF AREAS BUT THIS IS THE FIRST
TIME WHERE I'M PAYING AS MUCH
IN RENT AS I HAVE BEEN PAYING
AS MUCH IN UTILITIES HAVE EVER
AND THE FIRST TIME I'VE EVER
BEEN WITHOUT POWER FOR MORE
THAN SIX DAYS.
AND THAT'S WHY TODAY I WANT TO
TALK ABOUT A CRITICAL ISSUE
THAT AFFECTS SAW POWER OUTAGES.
POWER OUTAGES ARE A MAJOR
INCONVENIENCE AND IT CAN HAVE
DEVASTATING CONSEQUENCES FOR
BUSINESSES, HOSPITALS AND HOMES
.
THEY DISRUPT OUR LIVES,
COMPROMISE OUR SAFETY AND HARM
OUR ECONOMY.
BUT WHAT CAUSES THESE POWER
OUTAGES?
ONE OF THE MAIN REASONS IS A
FAILURE OF PRIVATELY OWNED
ELECTRIC UTILITIES TO INVEST IN
INFRASTRUCTURE AND MODERNIZE
OUR POWER GRIDS.
PRIVATE UTILITIES OFTEN
PRIORITIZE THEIR PROFITS OVER
THE NEEDS OF THEIR CUSTOMERS
WHICH CAN LEAD TO THE NEGLECT
OF THE SYSTEM RESULTING IN
BLACKOUTS AND BROWNOUTS.
IT'S TIME TO RECOGNIZE THAT
ELECTRICITY IS A BASIC HUMAN
NEED AND SHOULD BE TREATED AS A
PUBLIC GOOD AND NOT A COMMODITY
FOR PRIVATE PROFIT.
WE NEED PUBLIC OWNERSHIP
OF PUBLIC OWNERSHIP MODEL FOR
OUR ELECTRIC UTILITIES ONE THAT
PUTS THE NEEDS OF THE PEOPLE'S
FIRST PUBLIC OWNERSHIP
OF ELECTRIC UTILITIES MEANS
THAT THE COMMUNITY THROUGH ITS
ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES OWNS
AND CONTROLS THE ELECTRICAL
GRID.
THIS MODEL ENSURES THAT THE
UTILITY IS RUN IN THE INTERESTS
OF THE PUBLIC AND NOT FOR
PRIVATE GAIN.
IT ALSO MEANS THAT THE PUBLIC
CAN HOLD THOSE IN CHARGE
ACCOUNTABLE FOR THEIR ACTIONS
SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN
SEVERELY LACKING IN ADDITION,
PUBLIC OWNERSHIP OF ELECTRICAL
UTILITIES WOULD LEAD TO GREATER
INVESTMENT IN INFRASTRUCTURE,
MAKING THE POWER GRID MORE
RELIABLE AND LESS VULNERABLE TO
OUTAGES.
IT WOULD ALSO CREATE JOBS AND
ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES IN OUR
COMMUNITIES AS LOCAL WORKERS
WOULD BE EMPLOYED TO MAINTAIN
AND UPGRADE THE SYSTEM.
SOME ARGUE THAT PUBLIC
OWNERSHIP OF UTILITIES WOULD BE
INEFFICIENT BUT THE EVIDENCE
SUGGESTS OTHERWISE.
MUNICIPAL UTILITIES, WHICH ARE
OWNED BY LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
CONSISTENTLY OUTPERFORM PRIVATE
UTILITIES IN TERMS OF REALITY,
RELIABILITY, AFFORDABLE
AFFORDABILITY AND CUSTOMER
SATISFACTION AND CONCLUSION.
POWER OUTAGES ARE A SERIOUS
PROBLEM AND WE NEED TO TAKE
ACTION TO ADDRESS THEM.
PUBLIC OWNERSHIP OVER
ELECTRICAL UTILITIES IS THE
SOLUTION.
IT WILL ENSURE THAT THE NEEDS
OF THE PEOPLE ARE PUT FIRST AND
THAT OUR POWER GRID IS
RELIABLE, MODERN AND
SUSTAINABLE.
LET'S WORK TOGETHER TO MAKE
THIS A REALITY.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL MIKASA THANK YOU.
I JUST I FIRSTLY WANT TO THANK
ALL THE COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO
SHOWED UP TONIGHT AND SHARE
THEIR INPUT AND THEIR IMPORTANT
EXPERIENCES THAT THEY FACED
DURING RECENT POWER OUTAGES AND
OVER THE LAST FEW YEARS.
I WANT TO SAY THAT THIS
FEEDBACK IS VALUABLE AND LATER
ON DURING THE MEETING I HOPE
WE'RE GOING TO DISCUSS MORE
ABOUT HOW IMPORTANT STAKEHOLDER
ENGAGEMENT AND INPUT LIKE THE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO ARE HERE
TONIGHT CAN BE A PART OF THIS
RESOLUTION.
SO I JUST WANT TO LET YOU ALL
KNOW THAT WE ARE LISTENING
FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL ROSOL I WE HAVE
SOMETHING ON OUR AGENDA ON
EVICTION RELIEF LATER ON
TONIGHT.
BUT I ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO ALSO
ATTEND THE COUNTY BOARD
OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING AND
HOPEFULLY THAT WILL ALSO BE ON
THEIR AGENDA ON THE 15TH AT
7:00 P.M. AND HOPEFULLY WE CAN
ENCOURAGE OUR PARTNERS ON THE
COUNTY LEVEL TO ALSO SUPPORT WE
HAVE A COUPLE OF HUNDRED FOLKS
WHO ARE IN OUR EVICTION COURTS
RIGHT NOW AND THEY'RE PRIMARILY
MOTHERS.
SO IF YOU'VE FIND THIS ISSUE
OF INTEREST HERE TONIGHT AND
WOULD LIKE TO CONTINUE AT WORK
ON THE COUNTY LEVEL, I HOPE TO
SEE YOU AT THAT MEETING ON THE
15TH 7:00 P.M. THANK YOU FOR
THE COMMUNICATION.
THAT'S MERCATO I WANTED TO
THANK UM, PEOPLE WHO TOOK THE
TIME TO COMMUNICATE IN ADVANCE
THE CITY SCHOOLS MEETING THAT
COUNCILMAN RAGAZZI AND I
PARTICIPATED IN IT WAS REALLY,
REALLY VALUABLE.
WE SPENT THE TIME DURING THAT
MEETING SETTING OUR PRIORITIES
FOR OUR COLLABORATIVE WORK
TOGETHER AND I JUST WANT TO
REPORT OUT REALLY QUICKLY THAT
WE SORT OF UNDERSTANDING THAT
THERE'S ONLY SO MANY THINGS
THAT CAN BE ACCOMPLISHED
WHITTLED OUR LIST DOWN TO WHAT
WE THOUGHT THE MOST IMPORTANT
PRIORITIES WERE FOR THE CITIES
AND SCHOOLS AND RECONNECTED
AFTER SCHOOL BREAK PROGRAMING
MAKING SURE THAT WE'RE MEETING
THE NEEDS OF OUR COMMUNITIES.
THEY'RE COLLABORATIVELY WAS ONE
OF THE ABSOLUTE TOP PRIORITIES
SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOLS,
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
WITHIN THE PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM
AND HOW THE CITY AND THE
SCHOOLS CAN COLLABORATE ON THAT
AND AS WELL AS EQUITY AND
INCLUSION.
SO EVERYONE WHO TOOK THE TIME
TO OFFER FEEDBACK WE BROUGHT
THOSE VOICES TO THE TABLE AND
I'M REALLY PLEASED WITH THIS
AGENDA FOR THE GROUP.
THE OTHER THING I WANTED TO
MENTION REALLY QUICKLY IS THAT
EVERYONE KNOWS MAIN STREET IS
CLOSED RIGHT NOW FOR OUR WATER
MAIN REPLACEMENT'S PLEASE CHECK
OUT THE MAIN STREET AREA
ASSOCIATION'S WEBSITE.
THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF BUSINESSES THAT ARE BEING
AFFECTED THAT ARE PARTICIPATING
IN A PROGRAM CALLED CAN YOU DIG
IT AND EVERYTHING FROM
DISCOUNTS TO LOYALTY PROGRAMS
AND THINGS LIKE THAT JUST TO
ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO COME DOWN
TO MAIN STREET SO THOSE
BUSINESSES ARE OPEN AND ARE
HOPING TO SEE YOU SOON ARE
WILLING TO INCENTIVIZE YOU FOR
THAT.
SO AGAIN, THAT'S MAIN STREET
AREA ASSOCIATION WEBSITE CAN
YOU DIG IT PROGRAM AND THEN
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS AND I ARE
HAVING A COFFEE HOUR ON MARCH
19TH AT FOUR P.M. FOUR TO FIVE
P.M. AT THE AC.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S BETTER BRACKMAN THANK
YOU.
A COUPLE OF ROADS PROJECTS
HAPPENING IN THE FOURTH WARD.
ONE IS THE CEO CHURCH
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT.
PEOPLE WILL BE VERY EXCITED TO
HEAR ABOUT THAT ONE BECAUSE
IT'S BEEN ON DECK FOR A COUPLE
OF YEARS NOW AND THAT'S GOING
TO START MARCH 15TH AND IT GOES
FROM GREENVIEW TO MAPLE.
YOU CAN LEARN MORE ABOUT THE
PROJECT AND SIGN UP FOR UPDATES
BY VISITING THE PROJECT PAGE ON
THE CITY'S WEBSITE ON MARCH
16TH SIX P.M. THERE'S GOING TO
BE A PUBLIC FORUM AT THE
PITTSFIELD BRANCH LIBRARY TO
SHARE DETAILS ABOUT A PLANNED
UTILITY AND ROAD RESURFACING
PROJECT ON GREENVIEW.
THAT'S A PROJECT THAT'S PLANNED
FOR NEXT YEAR BUT THEY'RE
STARTING THE PLANNING RIGHT NOW
AND RESIDENTS WILL HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO PROVIDE INPUT ON
SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS AND I GUESS
CONTINUING WITH MY MOBILITY
FOCUSED UPDATES, I WANTED TO
GIVE AN UPDATE REGARDING
PROGRESS ON THE ISSUE OF CARS,
PARKING AND BIKE LANES WHICH I
THINK A LOT OF US HERE A LOT
OF COMPLAINTS ABOUT.
I SEE THIS EVERY TIME I GO DOWN
MAIN STREET.
SO ONE THING THAT PEOPLE
PROBABLY ALREADY KNOW ABOUT IS
THAT THE COMMUNITY STANDARDS
HAVE STEPPED UP ENFORCEMENT A
LOT.
THEY'RE GOING CONTINUE TO DO
THAT WHETHER IT'S COMPLAINT
BASED THROUGH THE NUMBER OR
WHETHER THEY DISCOVER IT WHILE
THEY'RE ON PATROL.
THEY'RE ALSO PLANNING TO SEND A
LETTER TO ALL THE DELIVERY
COMPANIES LIKE UPS, AMAZON,
FEDEX INFORMING THEM OF OUR
BIKE LANE ORDINANCE AND LETTING
THEM KNOW THAT WE'RE
ACTIVELY
ENFORCING IT.
ALSO WE ARE GOING
TO IMPLEMENT
A PROCESS BY WHICH CITIZENS CAN
MAKE A REPORT TO COMMUNITY
STANDARDS WITH A PHOTO WITH THE
LICENSE PLATE AND A DATE TIME
AND LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT
AND THE CITY WILL SEND A
WARNING LETTER TO THE
REGISTERED OWNER OF THE VEHICLE
THAT SAYS THAT FUTURE
INFRACTIONS MAY RESULT IN A
TICKET.
THEY'RE GOING TO BE WORKING
WITH TRANSPORTATION SIGNS AND
SIGNALS TO GET ADDITIONAL
SIGNAGE INSTALLED WHERE THERE
ISN'T ANY ESPECIALLY PROTECTED
BIKE LANES.
AND THEN LAST BUT AT LEAST WHAT
I'M VERY EXCITED TO SEE ON OUR
AGENDA TONIGHT IS TINY STREET
SWEEPERS, SNOW PLOWS THAT IS
THE PURCHASES GOING TO ALLOW US
TO MAINTAIN THE SINGLE TRACK
BIKE LANES AND THAT HAS BEEN AN
IMPEDIMENT TO THE INSTALLATION
OF BOLLARDS.
SO VERY QUICKLY WE'RE GOING TO
BE ABLE TO PUT BOLLARDS WHERE
THERE AREN'T ANY AND I THINK
THAT DESIGN IS GOING TO HELP
WITH THIS ISSUE A LOT.
I ALSO JUST WANT TO THANK STAFF
WHO ARE THE ONES THAT PUT
TOGETHER THIS RESPONSE AND
PLAN.
THANK YOU FOR THEIR
COMMUNICATION COUNCIL BRITISH.
HI EVERYONE.
THANK YOU.
I WANT TO ACTUALLY THANK STAFF
FOR ALL OF THEIR HARD WORK
DURING THESE SERIAL POWER
OUTAGES.
THAT'S SUCH A TERRIBLE PHRASE
AND ALSO THANKS FOR THE BRUSH
COLLECTION THAT'S BEGUN AND TO
COME AND I WANTED TO INVITE OUR
WARD ONE CONSTITUENTS.
CYNTHIA AND I ARE GOING TO HAVE
A JOINT COFFEE HOUR FROM FOUR
THIRTY FIVE THIRTY ON MONDAY
MARCH TWENTY SEVENTH THAT WILL
PROBABLY BE AT THE TREVOR WOOD
LIBRARY BUT WE WILL UPDATE YOU
ON THAT AT THE NEXT COUNCIL
MEETING AND THROUGH NEWSLETTERS
TWITTER AND FACEBOOK.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
FURTHER COMMUNICATION
.
I WOULD LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE COMMISSION
ON DISABILITY ISSUES ROSARITA
REDCLIFF.
THERE'LL BE MORE CONVERSATION
ABOUT POWER OUTAGES AND THE
LIKE WITH DC FIVE.
YES IT IS.
BUT WHAT I'D LIKE TO DO IN THIS
BRIEF COMMUNICATIONS TO
EMPHASIZE MY THANKS AND
GRATITUDE FOR THE RESPONSE
OF THE MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION
WHEN THE POWER GOES OUT THAT'S
AN EMERGENCY FOR PEOPLE AND
IT'S EMERGENCY FOR FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
WE FOCUS OUR MUNICIPAL EFFORTS
ON MAKING SURE THAT WE DO
ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING WE CAN TO
ENSURE THE ONGOING AND SAFE
PROVISION OF SERVICES IN DURING
THESE TIMES AND THE EFFORT HAS
BEEN LED OF COURSE BY THE
INDEFATIGABLE MR. TONY.
BUT I WOULD BE REMISS IF I DID
NOT ALSO IDENTIFY FOLKS IN
PUBLIC SERVICES AND FIRE
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT OSSI
COMMUNICATIONS CLERK'S OFFICE
AND THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
SO MANY MEMBERS OF OUR CITY
STAFF WORKED LONG HOURS,
DIFFICULT HOURS UNDER TRYING
CONDITIONS TO ENSURE THE
ONGOING AND SAFE PROVISION
OF SERVICES TO OUR RESIDENTS.
AND I'M I'M INCREDIBLY GRATEFUL
FOR IT.
WE NOW HAVE A FORCE TO CONSENT
AGENDA MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE
TO APPROVE OR CONSENT AGENDA
MOVE BY COUNTY FAIR AND SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER.
OUR DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
GENDER I'D LIKE TO PULL CONSENT
AGENDA ITEM TWO FOR DISCUSSION
FOR SO THE THIS IS THE
RESOLUTION TO TWO OH OH THAT'S
RIGHT WE PULL IN AND DISCUSS IT
AFTERWARDS.
I GOT IT THERE WAS NO FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA ON FAVOR OR OPPOSE THE
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF CO2 IS APPROVED
WITH ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING THE
VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT
TO A THREE CIANNI CO2
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE DOWNTOWN
STREET CLOSURES FOR RESTAURANT
AND RETAIL USE MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN GHAZI EDWYN SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION.
PLEASE HAVE TO THANK YOU SO YOU
KNOW I AM I'M ALL FOR THE
DOWNTOWN STREET CLOSURES.
I THINK IT'S IN ALIGNMENT WITH
OUR ZERO GOALS.
IT'S GOOD FOR OUR BUSINESSES.
I DID HAVE SOME QUESTIONS FOR
OUR COMMUNITY SERVICE
ADMINISTRATOR DEREK DELACOURT
JUST ABOUT ACCESSIBILITY AND
WHAT DO PEOPLE DO HAVE MOBILITY
OR OTHER DISABILITIES OR OLDER
ADULTS THAT CAN NO LONGER BE
DROPPED OFF RIGHT IN FRONT
OF BUSINESS WHERE THEY'RE GOING
THE CONVERSATION WENT REALLY
WELL AND WE TALKED ABOUT
POTENTIALLY HAVING DESIGNATING
I'M SORRY MORE ACCESSIBLE
PARKING SPOTS ON STREET
IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT TO THE
CLOSURES AND THOSE SPOTS WE
MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE CLOSE
TO CURB CUTS AND WE WOULD HELP
TO REALLY MAP OUT ACCESSIBLE
ROUTES FOR PEOPLE FROM THEIR
CARS TO GETTING INTO THE STREET
CLOSURES.
AND I ALSO I WANT TO THANK
DED.
I KNOW THAT YOU HAVE DONE SOME
WORK AROUND ADDING ABOUT FOUR
TO FIVE ACCESSIBLE PARKING
SPOTS DURING THESE STREET
CLOSURES AND THEY'VE EVEN
CREATED AN INTERACTIVE MAP THAT
HIGHLIGHTS WHERE THEY ARE.
I THINK IT WOULD BE GREAT IF WE
COULD ADD THESE ROUTES TO THOSE
MAPS SO THAT PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES AND OTHERS CAN
PLAN AHEAD WHEN THEY COME OUT
HERE AND ALSO ENJOY THE STREET
CLOSURES.
SO THAT'S IN THE WORKS.
I JUST WANTED TO SHARE IT
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSED SAY IT WAS APPROVED.
WE NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS, PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING.
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO SPEAK AT
A PUBLIC HEARING YOU NEED NOT
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BUT
YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO THE
SPECIFICS SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING THE SPECIFIC
ITEM ON THE AGENDA SPEAKERS IN
ALL CASES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS.
OUR REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE ZONING ZONING OF SIX
POINT SEVEN PALMY SIX SEVEN
POINT SIX ACRES FROM WPE
TOWNSHIP DISTRICT AND ONE SEE
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
TO OUR FOR A MULTIFAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT ONE SIX EIGHT
ZERO DUVAN ROAD ONE SEVEN ONE
ZERO DAVOREN ROAD TWO SIX SEVEN
ZERO PONTIAC TRAIL TWO SIX
SEVEN TWO PONTIAC TRAIL TWO SIX
SEVEN EIGHT PONTIAC TRAIL AND
TWO SIX EIGHT TWO PONTIAC TRAIL
.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
I WANT TO SPEAK AT THE PUBLIC
HEARING JUST MOSEY ON UP.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JOHN MIRSKY.
I LIVE AT FIVE OR FIVE PERSON
PLACE THE VOTES THAT YOU WILL
TAKE TONIGHT TO APPROVE OR
DISAPPROVE THE VILLAGE OF ANN
ARBOR PROJECT AND ITS
BROWNFIELD PLAN ARE BOTH
CONSEQUENTIAL AND HIGHLY
SYMBOLIC.
YOU AND ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS
DESERVE A SUMMARY OF THE
SITUATION REGARDING CLIMATE
ACTION.
CITY COUNCIL DECLARED A CLIMATE
EMERGENCY IN TWENTY NINETEEN
AND SET THE TARGET TO ACHIEVE
CARBON NEUTRALITY BY TWENTY
THIRTY.
IT THEN APPROVED A TWO ZERO
PLAN IN TWENTY TWENTY.
THE PLAN RECOGNIZES THAT
GREENHOUSE GASES.
MR. MIRSKY I THINK YOU'RE
SPEAKING AT THE WRONG PUBLIC
HEARING.
AM I?
I BELIEVE YOU ARE THE VILLAGE'S
PUBLIC NUMBER TWO.
OK, THIS IS I KNOW THAT THAT
WAS THE I'M SORRY FOR
INTERRUPTING.
WELL THAT'S ALL OF YOUR TIME.
I DO NOTE THAT THE ADDRESS
OVERLAPS AND SO PERHAPS THERE
ARE THREE THREE THINGS THAT
SORT OF ALL FIT TOGETHER
CORRECT?
YOU KNOW WHAT?
FORGIVE THE INTERRUPTION AND
LET'S JUST ROLL AND CONTINUE ON
AS YOU WILL.
THAT'S FINE.
MY EARNEST APOLOGY CONTINUE
THEN.
YES OK.
OK THANKS VERY MUCH.
SORRY SO AS I WAS SAYING THE
EIGHT TO ZERO PLAN RECOGNIZE IS
THAT GREENHOUSE GASES AND EPA
CRITERIA POLLUTANTS CREATED BY
BURNING FOSSIL FUELS ARE TO
AFFECT ATMOSPHERIC SEWAGE WITH
A WIDE RANGE OF SEVERE IMPACTS
.
MOREOVER, IT ASSUMES QUOTE ALL
NEW RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS ARE DESIGNED AND
BUILT TO OPERATE WITHOUT THE
USE OF NATURAL GAS AS THE
HOUSING AND ARBOR URGENTLY
NEEDS MORE HOUSING ESPECIALLY
AFFORDABLE AND WORKFORCE
HOUSING.
CITY COUNCIL HAS APPROVED TWO
HOUSING RELATED GOALS THAT I
KNOW OF FIRST IN TWENTY FIFTEEN
SETTING THE GOAL OF CATALYZING
TWO THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED NEW
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS BY
TWENTY THIRTY FIVE AND SECOND
IN TWENTY TWENTY BY APPROVING
THE EIGHT TO ZERO PLAN WHICH IN
STRATEGY TO ACTION ONE TARGETS
CATALYZING TWO THOUSAND NEW
UNITS OF RESIDENTIAL
MULTIFAMILY OR 80 USE
PRESUMABLY INCLUDING SOME
OF THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS
FROM THE FIRST GOAL.
CITY COUNCIL HAS NEVER DECLARED
HOUSING EMERGENCY.
SO WHERE DO WE STAND ON OUR
HOUSING AND CLIMATE GOALS SINCE
THE EIGHT TWO ZERO PLAN IS
APPROVED TWO THOUSAND SIX
HUNDRED APPROXIMATELY TWO
THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED NEW
HOUSING UNITS HAVE BEEN
APPROVED OR IN THE APPROVAL
PIPELINE.
IN ADDITION, THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN HAS ANNOUNCED IT IS
BUILDING A TWENTY THREE HUNDRED
BED DORMITORY WITH A SECOND
PHASE PLAN A LOT OF NEW HOUSING
IS BEING CREATED THAT'S GREAT
UNFORTUNE INAPTLY AT LEAST 30
OF THE FORTY SIX NEW HOUSING
DEVELOPMENTS ANNOUNCED SINCE
THE APPROVAL OF THE TWO ZERO
PLAN WILL BE NATURAL GAS
CONNECTED.
THE VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR FOUR
HUNDRED AND FORTY PLANNED
GARDEN APARTMENTS IN TWO PHASES
ARE AMONG THEM.
THEY ALL REPRESENT ASSETS WHICH
WILL EMIT ATMOSPHERIC SEWAGE
FOR AT LEAST TWENTY YEARS.
THESE EMISSIONS WILL UNDERMINE
THE EIGHT TO ZERO PLAN WELL
BEYOND ITS TWENTY THIRTY TARGET
.
YOU KNOW THAT ALL ELECTRIC
DEVELOPMENTS ARE FINANCIALLY
AND TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE.
YOU'VE APPROVED SEVERAL OF THEM
THE VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT OR THE
VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT COULD BE
ALL ELECTRIC ENERGY EFFICIENT
AND HAVE LOW UTILITY COSTS.
DTT HAS PUBLICLY STATED IT CAN
PROVIDE THE REQUIRED ELECTRIC
GRID INFRASTRUCTURE.
MY FORMER EMPLOYER BOSZ IN
RESPONSE TO AN INQUIRY THAT I
MADE A WEEK AGO STATED IN
WRITING THAT IS THOUSANDS
OF AIR SOURCE HEAT PUMPS IN
STOCK AND FINALLY WE KNOW FROM
AN ANALYSIS OF OVER TWO HUNDRED
AND SIXTY DEVELOPMENTS IN
PENNSYLVANIA PRESENTED TO THE
ENERGY COMMISSION AND PROVIDED
TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION THAT
SUPER ENERGY EFFICIENT PASSIVE
HOUSE CERTIFIED THAT CONTINUE
OF COURSE.
THANK YOU THAT SUPER ENERGY
EFFICIENT PASSIVE HOUSE
CERTIFIED MULTIFAMILY PROJECTS
WITH LOW UTILITY COSTS ARE
BEING BUILT AT OR BELOW THE
COST OF CODE COMPLIANT ONES.
THERE IS NO REASON TO APPROVE
THE VILLAGE PROJECT TONIGHT.
MOREOVER, IT MAKES NO SENSE TO
PROVIDE THIRTY ONE MILLION
DOLLARS IN BROWNFIELD
INCENTIVES WHEN THE PROJECT
DOES NOT INCLUDE ANY AFFORDABLE
HOUSING UNITS AND IT WILL BE
HEATED WITH NATURAL GAS.
DO NOT APPROVE THIS PROJECT IN
ITS CURRENT FORM NO ONE WOULD
APPROVE NEW DEVELOPMENTS WHICH
DISCHARGE LIQUID SEWAGE.
WHY APPROVE THIS ONE?
A SHORT DELAY ON THIS PROJECT
IS WORTH THE SHORT TERM IMPACT
ON NEW HOUSING AVAILABILITY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AND I JUST LIKE TO SAY MOST
OF YOU KNOW ME FROM THE WORK I
DO IN THE ENERGY AND CLIMATE
SPACE AS WELL AS ENVIRONMENTAL
SPACE.
I ALSO PROBABLY SPEND AT LEAST
TWENTY HOURS A WEEK WORKING ON
HOUSING AND PLACEMAKING RELATED
ACTIVITIES.
HOUSING IS VERY IMPORTANT TO ME
.
WE CAN DO BOTH
ANYONE ELSE LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
GOOD EVENING CITY COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS FEIGNER I LIVE IN
WARD ONE.
MOST OF YOU KNOW ME.
I'VE MET MOST OF YOU NOT ALL.
I'M GOING TO SPEAK TO ALL THREE
OF THESE PUBLIC HEARINGS
TONIGHT BECAUSE IT IS AN
IMPORTANT AS A PREVIOUS SPEAKER
POINTED OUT BUT THIS FIRST ONE
IS ALL ABOUT ZONING AND THIS
ZONING.
THIS I FORESEE THAT THIS IS
BEING REQUESTED FOR IS AS BAD
AS OUR ARE ONE THAT CAME IN AS
WHEN WE WENT TO THE ANNEX AND
FROM THE TOWNSHIP.
AND I THINK IT NEEDS TO BE MADE
CLEAR TO EVERYBODY, THE PUBLIC
AND THE COUNCIL THAT THIS
DEVELOPER HAS NO RIGHT TO THIS
ZONING REQUEST THERE.
IT'S A REQUEST AND WE
DEFINITELY HAVE THE RIGHT TO
SAY NO TO SOMETHING LIKE THIS
ESPECIALLY IF IT'S NOT WHAT
WE'RE LOOKING FOR.
AND AS THE PREVIOUS SPEAKER
MADE QUITE CLEAR, IT CERTAINLY
ISN'T WHAT WE'RE LOOKING FOR.
THE CONCERNS THAT I'VE HEARD IN
THE COMMUNITY THAT IF WE DON'T
GIVE THEM THIS, I'LL DO IT BY
RADAR ONE.
SEE, I THINK THAT THAT'S A
UNSUBSIDIZED CONSIDERATION THIS
COUNCIL HAS MADE SO MANY
EFFORTS, SUBSTANTIAL EFFORT TO
DO AWAY WITH OUR ONE ZONING
THAT I WOULD HOPE THAT YOU
WOULD DEFEND AGAINST OUR ONE
ZONING GOING ON THIS SITE.
THIS NEEDS SOMETHING BETTER.
THIS NEEDS A NEW ZONING
DESIGNATION WE SHOULD HAVE PUT
IN PLACE WHEN WE DID OUR MASTER
PLAN WHICH IS NOW CALLED
COMPREHENSIBLY PLAN THANKFULLY
AND WE SHOULD HAVE REDONE THAT
PLAN TWENTY EIGHTEEN TWENTY
NINETEEN FOR VARIOUS REASONS
THAT GOT DELAYED.
WE SAYING NO TO THIS ZONING
REQUEST IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO
RECONSIDER AND CORRECT THE PAST
VISION.
OUR VISION OF THE PAST THAT'S
REFLECTED IN A TIRED AND IN
INAPPROPRIATE ZONING
DESIGNATIONS.
WHAT IS LEFT IN OUR MASTER PLAN
ARE COCKPIT'S ATLANTES PLAN IS
JUST BEEN REHASHED AND REHASHED
OVER AND OVER AND IT'S NOT WHAT
WE EAT.
IT'S NOT WHAT WE NEEDED TWENTY
YEARS AGO EVEN.
BUT WE'RE GOING TO LET THAT GO
SO I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
THAT WE SAY SAY NO WHEN A BAD
PROJECT COMES BEFORE US AND
GIVE OURSELVES THE OPPORTUNITY
TO CORRECT ERRORS WE MAY HAVE
MADE IN THE PAST OR JUST
CORRECT RIGHT.
A SHIP OF STATE AS YOU KNOW NEW
INFORMATION COMES TO LIGHT.
I'D LIKE TO SEE A BETTER DOZING
ZONING DESIGNATION FOR OUR FOUR
E AND E FOR ENVIRONMENTAL NOW
THERE'S SO MANY THINGS THAT ARE
WRONG WITH THIS.
IF YOU READ THE STAFF REPORT ON
JUST THE ZONING, HOW IT'S GOING
TO DESTROY THE ALREADY TERRIBLE
INTERSECTIONS AROUND IT, HOW
IT'S GOING TO ADD TO TRAFFIC,
HOW IT'S GOING TO BE A BIG
CARBON WASTE BECAUSE WE'RE NOT
WE DON'T HAVE THE PROPER ZONING
IN PLACE.
THE THING THAT'S SHOCKING TO ME
ABOUT THIS IS THIS REPRESENTS
MORE THAN A QUARTER OF THE AREA
OF OUR DOWNTOWN AND IT IS TWICE
THE SIZE OF THE ORIGINAL
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CAMPUS
AND TO THINK THAT THAT WOULD GO
UNPLANNED OR PLANNED BY A
DEVELOPER IS JUST GOING TO
SHOEHORN SOMETHING IN THAT
DOESN'T EVEN BELONG IN A
CORNFIELD.
NORTHFIELD NO OFFENSE INTO OUR
FINE COMMUNITY REALLY
ESSENTIALLY EIGHTY ACRES HERE
BECAUSE THEY OWN THE OTHER
ADJACENT PARCELS TO TRAGEDY AND
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO SET
THAT STRAIGHT AND RETHINK THIS
PROJECT AND I THINK YOU SHOULD
REALLY GIVE IT SOME THOUGHT.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO THE COMMUNITY
.
THANK YOU
THANK YOU, MAYOR TAKING OVER
TWENTY EIGHT CRIMINAL COURT.
I RESPECTFULLY DISAGREE WITH
MR. HAYNER.
I THINK FOR A ZONING WHICH I
THINK IS WHAT'S ON THE TABLE IS
ENTIRELY APPROPRIATE FOR THIS
SITE.
WE WANT HIGHER DENSITY
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING WHERE
POSSIBLE BUT NOT AT THE EXPENSE
OF OUR ZERO PLAN.
AS MR. MIRSKY SAID, THE PLAN
EXPLICITLY CALLS FOR NO NATURAL
GAS CONNECTION TO NEW
CONSTRUCTION AND IT ASSUMES ALL
ELECTRIC IT OR EXCUSE ME ALL
ELECTRIC NET ZERO ENERGY
BUILDING STARTING IN TWENTY
TWENTY TWO THE VILLAGE'S THREE
HUNDRED TWENTY APARTMENTS WILL
GENERATE BY MY ESTIMATE TWENTY
SIXTY FOUR METRIC TONS OF CO2
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS JUST FROM
BURNING GASOLINE SAVINGS FROM
CONVERTING COMMUTERS TO VILLAGE
RESIDENTS WILL OFFSET ONLY
ABOUT ONE FIFTH OF THE DAMAGE.
ONE BENEFIT OF HIGH DENSITY
DEVELOPMENT IS FEWER EMISSIONS
BUT GAS FURNACES COMPLETELY
DEFEAT THE PURPOSE AS ARCHITECT
JAN CULBERTSON SAID AT THE
RECENT COLOSSI FORUM ON HOUSING
TRANSPORTATION AND CLIMATE
QUOTE WE CANNOT INVEST IN
LEGACY CARBON EMISSIONS.
PLEASE THINK ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
DOING.
THE CLIMATE DOES NOT CARE ABOUT
SOLAR PANEL CONTRACT CLIMATE
MILEAGES OR CARBON NEUTRALITY
TARGET DATE THE CLIMATE ONLY
CARES ABOUT ONE THING THE RAW
PHYSICS, THE MOLECULES OF CO2
AND OTHER GREENHOUSE GASES
WE'RE PUTTING IN THE ATMOSPHERE
.
THAT'S IT.
AND IN THAT RESPECT WE AS A
CITY ARE FAILING.
LAST MONTH I THINK YOU GOT THE
REPORT THAT I PUT TOGETHER NEW
DEVELOPMENTS IN THE 30 GAS
BURNING PROJECTS MR MIRSKY
REFERRED TO WHEN COMPLETE WILL
GENERATE ABOUT TWENTY FOUR
THOUSAND METRIC TON CO2
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS FROM GAS
COMBUSTION ALONE.
THIS IS MORE THAN QUADRUPLE THE
ESTIMATED FIFTY SEVEN HUNDRED
METRIC TONS OF ANNUAL EMISSIONS
THAT WILL BE PREVENTED THROUGH
THE COMBINATION OF SOLAR
INSTALLATIONS THE PENDING SOLAR
AT CITY FACILITY CONTRACT AND
THE HOMELAND SOLAR PARKS
CONTRACT REDUCE COMMUTER
TRAFFIC WILL ONLY OFFSET ABOUT
ONE SEVENTH OF THESE EMISSIONS
.
SO WE'RE NOT JUST VIOLATING
ZERO.
WE'RE WIPING OUT THESE
RENEWABLE ENERGY GAINS AND
PUTTING THE CITY'S EMISSION
REDUCTION TARGETS OUT OF REACH
.
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE THIS WAY
YOU HEARD A LITTLE EARLIER FROM
.
JEFF WILKERSON ON THE NORTH
YOU HEARD A LITTLE EARLIER FROM
MAPLE PROJECT.
JEFF WILKERSON ON THE NORTH
HE HAS THE AGENDA FOR LATER
MAPLE PROJECT.
TONIGHT.
HE HAS THE AGENDA FOR LATER
SEVENTY NINE APARTMENTS ALL
TONIGHT.
ELECTRIC 90 KILOWATT ROOFTOP
SEVENTY NINE APARTMENTS ALL
SOLAR GEOTHERMAL BATTERY
ELECTRIC 90 KILOWATT ROOFTOP
STORAGE WALL AND ROOF
SOLAR GEOTHERMAL BATTERY
INSTALLATION SUPERIOR TO THE
STORAGE WALL AND ROOF
VILLAGE AFFORDABLE HOUSING WITH
INSTALLATION SUPERIOR TO THE
15 PERCENT OF UNIT AT 60
VILLAGE AFFORDABLE HOUSING WITH
PERCENT AM I THIS PROJECT IS
15 PERCENT OF UNIT AT 60
EVERYTHING.
PERCENT AM I THIS PROJECT IS
THE VILLAGE IS NOT IT CAN AND
EVERYTHING.
IS BEING DONE HERE AND LOTS
THE VILLAGE IS NOT IT CAN AND
OF OTHER PLACES.
IS BEING DONE HERE AND LOTS
THANK YOU
.
JUST COME ON UP.
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING TIM LACQUERING
ROBERTSON BROTHERS HOMES.
GOOD TO SEE YOU.
I THINK SOME OF YOU CAN SEE ME
SPEAK IN FRONT OF YOU BEFORE
SIX NINE ZERO FIVE TELEGRAPH
ROAD.
I'M REPRESENTING THE
DEVELOPMENT TEAM.
IT'S BEEN A LONG ROAD TO
TONIGHT.
YOU KNOW THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF DISCOURSE WITH NEIGHBORS
WITH STAFF, WITH PUBLIC BODIES
OVER THE COURSE OF THE LAST
THREE YEARS.
WE'RE NOT THE FIRST TO LOOK AT
THE PROPERTY IN FACT WE EVEN
HAVE DROPPED IT ONCE OURSELVES.
IT'S A VERY DIFFICULT PROPERTY
.
THERE'S A REASON WHY THERE.
SIXTY SEVEN ACRES OF LAND IN
THE HEART OF ANN ARBOR.
IT'S A LANDFILL AND THERE'S A
LOT OF OF KUBIC THERE'S ABOUT A
ONE POINT NINE MILLION CUBIC
YARDS OF RUBBLE AND FILL.
SO WE HAVE A LOT THAT WE'RE
DEALING WITH ON THE SITE AGAIN
THAT'S WHY IT'S IT'S OUT THERE
FOR SO LONG.
I JUST WANT TO HAVE A FEW
HIGHLIGHTS.
I'M NOT GOING TO GIVE ALL THIS
A WHOLE PRESENTATION BUT WE
REALLY DID SEE THIS AS A
VILLAGE CONCEPT.
WE WANTED TO LOOK AT MULTIPLE
PRICE POINTS AND I THINK WE'VE
DONE THAT.
WE'VE GOT HOME SIZES FROM SIX
HUNDRED EIGHTY FOUR SQUARE FEET
TO EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FIFTY
SQUARE FEET BOTH RENTAL AND FOR
SALE.
IT DOES MEET THE SURROUNDING
ZONING DISTRICTS.
IT ALSO MEETS THE EXISTING THE
SPECIFIC DENSITY AND THE FUTURE
LAND USE PLAN ANN ARBOR WE'RE
NOT ASKING FOR A PUDI.
WE'RE ASKING FOR A STRAIGHT
ZONING OF OUR FORTE AND AGAIN
THAT MEETS THE SURROUNDING
DISTRICTS.
WE'LL MULTIPLE OPEN SPACE
AREAS.
WE'LL PROVIDE PUBLIC
CONNECTIONS BETWEEN OHLSSON
PARK AND LESLI PARK RIGHT NOW
THERE'S REALLY ONLY ONE PRIVATE
ENTRANCE INTO LESLI PARK.
THIS WOULD OPEN THAT UP FOR THE
PUBLIC ALTHOUGH THAT'S SIXTY
FIVE PERCENT OPEN SPACE AND
SIGNIFICANT WETLAND
PRESERVATION.
IT'S WALKABLE PROJECT OVER A
MILE OF PEDESTRIAN BIKE PATHS
OR SIDEWALKS AND BIKE PATHS.
THESE ARE ALL OPEN TO THE
PUBLIC.
IT'S AN APPROPRIATE MIX
OF RESIDENTIAL LAND USE.
IT'S WITHIN TARGETED GROWTH
LOCATION.
IF YOU LOOK ON YOUR MASTER PLAN
IT SPECIFICALLY CALLS FOR
GROWTH IN THIS AREA AND WE WILL
HAVE FAMILY ORIENTED ORIENTED
PLANS.
SO AGAIN WE'LL HAVE THAT KIND
OF MIX OF HOUSING.
IT'S A RECLAMATION
OF A FORMER
LANDFILL PROPERTY.
IT'S A VERY DIFFICULT PROPERTY
TO WORK WITH LOTS GREEN ENERGY
INITIATIVES.
PORTION OF IT WILL BE ALL
ELECTRIC.
THAT'S THE FOR SALE PORTION
OF IT.
SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF THE
PROPERTY AND WE'LL INCLUDE
ENERGY EFFICIENT APPLIANCES.
WE'LL ABSORB SOLAR PANELS ON
THE CLUBHOUSE.
WE'LL ALSO HAVE SOLAR
STREETLIGHTS THROUGHOUT THE
CONTRIBUTION OF ABOUT ONE POINT
TWO MILLION TO DAVOREN AND
PLENTY OF TRAIL ROAD
IMPROVEMENTS OVER THREE HUNDRED
THOUSAND AND PARK IMPROVEMENTS
AS WELL.
HIGH QUALITY OWNER OCCUPIED
HOMES, MENOTTI'S APARTMENT
HOMES.
WE ARE VENTURING WITH A VERY
CAPABLE AND REPUTABLE PARTNER
IN DTN MANAGEMENT AND SHAMELESS
SELF PROMOTION.
BUT YOU KNOW WE'VE BEEN AROUND
A LONG TIME.
YOU KNOW, I THINK WE HAVE A
VERY GOOD REPUTATION.
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT'S VERY
IMPORTANT TO US AND I THINK
IT'S IMPORTANT TO THE CITY TO
KNOW YOU HAVE SOMEBODY THAT
WILL STAND BY THE PROJECT.
SO WE'RE HERE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS THROUGHOUT.
THANK YOU.
APPRECIATE IT.
THANK DURING NELSON HOUSE WE'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING BOOGY IS THERE ANY
ONLINE I'D LIKE TO SPEAK THIS
PUBLIC HEARING ALL HERE.
I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS WITH
THEIR HANDS UP AT THIS TIME.
I WANT THE PHONE NUMBER ONE ONE
FIVE PRESS STAR SIX ON MUTE
YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD CALLER.
HI, THIS IS JANET BONNER.
I'M A CO-OWNER AT EARHART
VILLAGE AND I WANTED TO SPEAK
TO THE CONCERN OVER THE CITY
PLANS FOR FOR THE ROAD AND FOR
WHICH WOULD GO ALONG SIDE ON
THE EAST SIDE OF THE ROAD I'M
IN I'M CALLING IN SUPPORT
OF THE MANY COMMENTS THAT HAVE
ALREADY BEEN SAID AND I WANTED
TO ADD THAT'S A PUBLIC HEARING
SORT OF COMMENT THIS PUBLIC
THIS IS A PUBLIC HEARING.
PUBLIC HEARING MUST RELATE
EXCLUSIVELY TO THE SUBJECT
MATTER OF THE PUBLIC HEARING
THAT IS THE THE REZONING OF THE
AND ROAD AREA AND THE VILLAGE
IS GENERALLY
CALLER WITH THE
PHONE NUMBER AND AGAIN SIX,
SEVEN, EIGHT.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT ON THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
OH NO.
I MEAN YOU CAN YOU CAN YOU CAN
YOU HEAR ME?
HI MY NAME IS APRIL WINPAC AND
I AM A RESIDENT AT MONTANA WAY
AND PIONEER TRAIL AND I'M
CALLING IN REFERENCE TO PAGE
DASH ONE BY ALSO THE PRESIDENT
OF THE NAACP HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION CAN AND LIVE AS I
SAID RIGHT ON PIONEER TRAIL.
I'D LIKE TO PREVIOUS BUILDERS
TO KNOW EXACTLY WHAT IT IS LIKE
AS THEY ARE BUILDING DOWN A
COUPLE OF BLOCKS FROM MY
CURRENT RESIDENCE THE TRAFFIC,
THE NOISE AND EVERYTHING.
SO EVERYTHING HAS TO INCREASE.
I FIND IT A BIT HARD TO BELIEVE
THAT THERE IS GOING TO BE
ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT WITHOUT
AN INFRASTRUCTURE CHANGE TO
PIONEER TRAIL THE NOISE LEVEL
ITSELF HAS INCREASED ESPECIALLY
TO NEAR 20 THREE AND FOURTEEN
FROM FIFTY TO SIXTY DECIBEL TO
70 TO 80 DECIBELS DURING PEAK
TIME.
THE PIONEER TRAIL ITSELF HAS
BECOME A DRAG RACING STRIP FROM
PERLSON GOING NORTH DO AND IF
YOU'D LIKE TO COME OUT HERE
DURING HALF TO FIFTEEN YOU
WOULD BE VERY INTERESTED IN
SEEING THE CARS AND HEARING
THEIR ENGINES OPEN IF THEY MAKE
THEIR WAY DOWN PIONEER TRAIL IN
TERMS OF WILDLIFE UNFORTUNATELY
ALREADY WE FORCED THEM INTO
SMALL AREAS AND THEN WE KILL
THEM MUCH LIKE THE INCLUSIVE
CITY THAT ANN ARBOR IS.
WE HAVE ALREADY KILLED DEER AND
SKUNK AND RACCOONS HAVE JUST
ABOUT EVERY ANIMAL THAT YOU CAN
THINK OF WITHIN THE AREA
OF MONTANA, MONTANA AND PONTIAC
TRAIL ARE READY.
IT'S ALREADY BEEN AFFECTED.
SO I REALLY URGE THE CITY
COUNCIL TO RECONSIDER THAT ARE
THE AMENDMENTS OF THE ZONING
ORDINANCE PLEASE AND THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
I REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR TIME
THIS EVENING.
THANK YOU
.
DISCOVERED STILL A COMMENT.
HI, THIS IS SEVICHE IN THE
FOURTH WARD.
I'VE I'M JUST CALLING IN TO SAY
I THINK YOU SHOULD APPROVE
THIS.
I THINK THE DENSITY IS
APPROPRIATE AND I THINK IF WE
DON'T HAVE DEVELOPMENTS LIKE
THIS WITHIN THE CITY WE WILL
END UP WITH FAR LESS DENSE
DEVELOPMENTS MUCH FURTHER OUT
IN THE TOWNSHIPS.
THESE PEOPLE WILL HAVE TO
COMMUTE INTO ANN ARBOR IF WE
HAVE THEM IN THE CITY THEY'LL
BE ABLE TO GET TO THEIR JOBS
USING PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
RATHER THAN PERSONAL CARS.
AND I THINK WE SHOULD ENCOURAGE
AS MUCH PEOPLE TO LIVE WITHIN
THE CITY LIMITS OF ANN ARBOR AS
POSSIBLE RATHER THAN RATHER
THAN MOVING OUT INTO THE
TOWNSHIPS AND COMMUTING IN I DO
THINK THAT ELECTRIFICATION IS
I'M KIND OF CONFLICTED ABOUT
THIS WHOLE ISSUE.
I THINK THE THE ISSUE WITH
TRANSPORT IS A BIGGER ISSUE BUT
ELECTRIFICATION IS GREAT IF IT
CAN WORK OUT SO I WOULD
ENCOURAGE US TO MOVE IN THAT
DIRECTION.
BUT I'M NOT I HAVEN'T RUN THE
NUMBERS FOR THIS DEVELOPMENT
CLEARLY.
SO AS FAR AS THE DENSITY I
THINK IT'S APPROPRIATE IN THIS
AREA AND I ENCOURAGE YOU TO
APPROVE THE ZONING.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
ALL OVER THE PHONE.
I'M WRITING IN FOUR SIX FOUR.
DO YOU HAVE COMMENT?
GO AHEAD.
YEAH YEAH.
THIS IS BEFORE I MET FOR TWENTY
ONE FOURTH STREET.
I WANT TO ENCOURAGE ALL COUNCIL
MEMBERS TO WEIGH FOLLOW THE
ADVICE OF DAMASKE AND KEN
GARBER.
I AM NOT AN EXPERT LIKE THEY
ARE BUT I TRUST THEM SO WE ARE
VERY LUCKY WE'VE GOT THE
TECHNOLOGY TO GIVE YOU ADVICE
ENERGY EXPERT BUT I GET THE
CONCEPT WE SHOULD NOT BE LEFT
TO FALL INTO A NEW CONSTRUCTION
PERIOD.
IT'S JUST INSANE AND IT FLIES
IN THE FACE OF THE OF THAT YOU
ARE PROVEN SUPPOSEDLY WE'RE SO
PROUD.
I KNOW IT'S DIFFICULT BUT I'M
SURE THAT WELL YOU CAN
INCENTIVIZE DEVELOPERS BETTER
OF BOTH I THINK ONE OR BOTH
OF THOSE THERE ARE EXAMPLES
HERE IN ANN ARBOR A LESS
PROMINENT DEVELOPERS WHO HAVE
MADE IT WORK WELL, FOR EXAMPLE
AND THAT'S ONE EXAMPLE THAT
WILL MAKE A ROAD FOR EXAMPLE WE
CAN INCENTIVIZE DEVELOPERS
SOMEHOW WE CAN FIND LEGAL TO TO
PREVENT THEM FROM BUILDING NEW
CONSTRUCTION WITH GAS HOOKUPS.
WE ARE A TWO YEAR PLAN.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
CALLER WITH THE NAME
LENGEL.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
HI THIS IS ALEX LOWE CALLING
FROM THREE.
I DIDN'T GO TO AN ENGINEERING
SCHOOL QUITE AS FAR AS
PROMINENT AS THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN BUT WHEN I WAS IN
ENGINEERING SCHOOL I DID STILL
LEARN THAT EVERYTHING IN
ENGINEERING IS ABOUT TRADE OFFS
AND WHAT WHAT I'M SEEING HERE
HERE TONIGHT IS A LOT OF PEOPLE
TALKING ABOUT THE PERFECT AND
NOT AND NOT WHAT THE TRADE OFFS
ARE.
AND I AND I'D LIKE TO GET US
TALKING ABOUT WHAT WHAT THE
ACTUAL TRADE OFFS ARE THE TRADE
OFFS OF THAT WE'RE SEEING HERE
ARE EITHER WE CAN PROVIDE THIS
OR THERE'S HOUSING ALL WITHIN
THE CITY LIMITS WHERE THE CITY
WILL GET TAX REVENUE FROM IT,
WHERE WE WILL BE ABLE TO
PROVIDE PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
AND BIKE NETWORKS AND WALK WALK
ABILITY AND YEAH, MAYBE WE'LL
WE'LL HAVE TO HAVE MORE GAS
AROUND FOR A WHILE OR THE
ALTERNATIVE IS WHERE WE CAN LET
THOSE SAME PEOPLE WHO AREN'T
JUST GOING TO MAGICALLY
DISAPPEAR BY
BUY OR RENT THEIR
HOUSING OUT IN THE TOWNSHIPS
WHERE THE CITY WON'T GET THE
TAX REVENUE WHERE THEY HAVE
MUCH LAXER LAWS ON THINGS LIKE
THAT LIKE GET GAS AND GAS
APPLIANCES AND STUFF AND WHERE
THEY'RE GOING TO THEY'RE GOING
PUSHED FAR MORE TO ADD TO DRIVE
MORE WHICH HONESTLY IS A BIGGER
DEAL FOR POLLUTION IN THE IN
THE CITY.
SO I WOULD I WOULD I LIKE TO
HAVE AN ALL ELECTRIC
DEVELOPMENT THERE?
ABSOLUTELY.
I WOULD LOVE IT.
I REALLY, REALLY WOULD.
BUT I DON'T WANT TO PUSH IF IT
IF IT MEANS THAT WE JUST AREN'T
GOING TO WIND UP WITH ANYTHING
AND THE HISTORY OF THAT SIDE
SHOWS THAT IF WE PUSH TOO HARD
WE'RE NOT GOING TO WIND UP WITH
ANYTHING THAT YET AGAIN THANK
YOU.
THANK YOU
.
LUIS VASQUEZ, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
YES.
GREETINGS.
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL LUIS
VASQUEZ, RESIDENT OF UPPER
LOWER TOWN AND A VERY A LOCATED
VERY CLOSE TO WHERE THE VILLAGE
IS BEING PROPOSED TO BE BUILT.
I WANTED TO CALL TONIGHT TO
SPEAK IN FAVOR OF THE REZONING
OF THIS PARCEL OF LAND.
I THINK IT'S APPROPRIATE HIGHLY
APPROPRIATE TO DENSIFY AT LEAST
PARTS OF THIS AREA OF THE CITY
WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS AND ALSO
JUST TO SAY THAT THE I'M GLAD
THAT THE ONE OF THE
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE
DEVELOPER IS THERE TO HEAR
ABOUT THE ENVIRONMENTAL
CONCERNS THAT ARE BEING
EXPRESSED.
YOU KNOW, I'M SURE ROBERTSON
BUILDS, YOU KNOW, DECENT
HOUSING AND WE HAVE A GREAT
NEED FOR THAT.
BUT IF YOU GUYS COULD
INCORPORATE MORE MORE ELECTRIC
ELECTRIFICATION INTO YOUR
PROJECTS, ESPECIALLY IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR, THE MORE THE
BETTER.
WE DO NEED TO GET AWAY FROM THE
USE OF METHANE AND OTHER
GREENHOUSE GASES, METHANE BEING
ONE OF THE MORE POTENT BUT
THANK YOU FOR BEING THERE AND
HEARING OUR CONCERNS AND ONCE
AGAIN I'M IN FAVOR OF THIS
ZONING.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
ADAM GOODMAN, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
YEAH.
HEY, SO AT LEAST ONE OF THE
PREVIOUS SPEAKERS MENTIONED
THAT THE CITY HOSTED A HOUSING
AND CLIMATE CHANGE FOR A COUPLE
OF WEEKS AGO AND I THINK THE
BIGGEST THING I TOOK AWAY FROM
THAT SESSION IS DENSE
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING IN CITIES
IS ONE OF THE BEST TOOLS THAT
WE HAVE TO COMBAT CLIMATE
CHANGE BECAUSE MULTIFAMILY
BUILDINGS ARE MORE EFFICIENT
AND BECAUSE ENABLING FOLKS TO
LIVE NEAR THEIR JOBS AND HAVE A
VARIETY OF TRANSPORTATION
OPTIONS IS IS MUCH BETTER THAN
THE ALTERNATIVE.
BUT I ALSO HEARD SOMETHING ELSE
ON THAT FORUM WHICH IS THAT WE
NEED TO BE REALLY CAREFUL ABOUT
PLACING SEVERE RESTRICTIONS ON
DEVELOPMENTS IN THE CITY UNLESS
WE CAN DO SO IN COOPERATION
WITH THE REST OF OUR REGION.
IF ANN ARBOR DECIDES TO REQUIRE
100 PERCENT ELECTRIFIED
DEVELOPMENTS THAT OUR NEIGHBORS
AND CYO TOWNSHIP IN PITTSFIELD
TOWNSHIP AND SO ON DON'T DO ANY
SUCH THING, THEN WHAT IS THE
RESULT OF THAT GOING TO BE?
IT COULD BACKFIRE ON US SO WE
NEED TO CONSIDER WHAT THE
ALTERNATIVES SCENARIO REALLY IS
WHEN WE'RE MAKING A CHOICE LIKE
THIS AND SO I HEARD MR MIRSKY
SAYING THAT WE CAN DO BOTH WE
CAN HAVE SUCCESSFUL ELECTRIFIED
DEVELOPMENTS WITHOUT RENDERING
THEM INFEASIBLE AND I WANT TO
BELIEVE THAT IT WOULD BE GREAT
IF THAT'S TRUE BUT I'M NOT SURE
I DO BELIEVE THAT'S TRUE IN
EVERY CASE ON EVERY SINGLE SITE
AND I CERTAINLY REMEMBER IN
PREVIOUS INSTANCES WITH
SOMEWHAT DIFFERENT CONTEXT WE
WEREN'T TALKING ABOUT ENERGY
BUT WE HAVE SEEN CASES IN THE
PAST WHERE PRIOR COUNSEL
DEMANDED TOO MUCH
OF DEVELOPERS.
THE DEVELOPERS WALKED AWAY AND
WE GOT MUCH WORSE BY RIGHT
PROJECTS INSTEAD OR WE MIGHT
GET NOTHING HERE AND WE'D ONLY
RAMP UP DEMAND FOR SPRAWL OUT
IN THE TOWNSHIPS.
AS I WAS SAYING BEFORE.
SO I JUST URGE YOU ALL TO BE
CAREFUL HERE NOT TO MAKE
PERFECT THE ENEMY OF THE GOOD.
THIS IS CERTAINLY NOT A PERFECT
PROJECT BUT I THINK IT'S A NET
POSITIVE FOR ANN ARBOR EVEN SO
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
.
SEE, NO ONE IS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NO.
TWO RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR SITE PLAN
OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AT ONE
SIX EIGHT ZERO DAVOREN ROAD.
IS THERE ANYONE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
HERE AGAIN, I HAVE A TECHNICAL
QUESTION ABOUT THIS.
I PLAN TO ME IT APPEARS TO BE
ILLEGAL UNDER OUR OR OUR
REZONING.
THAT'S BECAUSE THE FRONT SET
BACK ALONG GUARAN ROAD EXCEEDS
A 40 FOOT MAXIMUM FRONT THAT
THAT REQUIREMENT THE DEVELOPER
NEEDED THE SPACE TO MEET THE
SIXTY FIVE PERCENT OPEN SPACE
REQUIREMENT UNDER OUR FOR A
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
WAS CONDITIONAL ON THE
PETITIONER OBTAINING VARIANCE
FROM THE STATE.
THAT REQUIREMENT TO MY
KNOWLEDGE THAT VARIANCE HAS NOT
BEEN GRANTED.
SO THIS PLAN AS SHE STANDS
LOOKS ILLEGAL TO ME NOW THE
DEVELOPER RECENTLY ANNEXED AND
PROPERTIES THAT WILL ALLOW IT
TO MEET THE OPEN SPACE
REQUIREMENT TO FIX A SETBACK
PROBLEM BUT WE HAVE NOT SEEN
THAT PLAN THE PLAN BEFORE
TONIGHT HAS TOO BIG A SETBACK
AND GIVEN AS I READ BUT YOU
SHOULD ASK YOUR STAFF I'M NOT
AN EXPERT ON ZONING BEFORE
VOTING I SUGGEST THAT YOU
SETTLE THIS QUESTION ON SMALL
POINT.
YOUR MEETING AGENDA IS
INCORRECT WHEN HE SAYS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION VOTED NO
NOTHING TO RECOMMEND APPROVAL.
THE ACTUAL VOTE WAS EIGHT TO
ONE WITH COMMISSIONER APRON'S
VOTING NO.
MANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS WERE
HIGHLY CRITICAL OF THIS PROJECT
A FEW MOMENTS AGO MR. OFTEN
DESCRIBED THE POSITIVE FEATURES
OF THIS PROJECT WHICH THEY DO
EXIST.
THE ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FOUR
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES THAT WILL
BE ALL ELECTRIC, THE STREET
LIGHTS THAT WE PROBABLY POWERED
I SOLAR, THE SOLAR CLUBHOUSE,
THE ROUNDABOUT UNTIL TODAY I
HAD GIVEN THE DEVELOPER FULL
CREDIT FOR THESE POSITIVE
AMENITIES AND CLIMATE FRIENDLY
ONES AS WELL.
THEN I READ BROWNFIELD PLAN.
IT TURNS OUT IF YOU LOOK AT
PAGE 16 OF THE PLAN MR. LAFFAN
AND HIS COLLEAGUES AT ROBERTSON
BROTHERS ARE ASKING US THE
PUBLIC TO PAY THE INCREMENTAL
COST OF THE ELECTRIFICATION
OF ONE HUNDRED FIFTY OR FOR
SALE HOMES.
THE STREET WOULD BE ELECTRIC
STREET LIGHTS THE EXCUSE ME THE
SOLAR STREETLIGHTS, THE SOLAR
CLUBHOUSE.
MR. GARBER, CAN I ASK YOU TO
REFER TO THE BROWNFIELD PLAN
DURING THE BROWNFIELD PLAN
PUBLIC HEARING?
OF COURSE I WILL.
THERE IS MUCH TO SAY ABOUT THE
BROWNFIELD PLAN THAT I WAS
GOING TO ADDRESS AT THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS RELEVANT TO THE STATE
PLAN, PLEASE.
I THINK BECAUSE THE DEVELOPERS
CLAIM THAT THEY ARE FOOTING THE
COST OR IMPLICATION THAT
THEY'RE FOOTING THE COST FOR
THESE POSITIVE ELEMENTS IS NOT
CORRECT OR THEY'RE NOT FOR THE
INCREMENTAL COST ANYWAY.
THEY'RE ASKING THE TAXPAYER TO
DO IT.
I THINK THAT'S RELEVANT TO THIS
PLAN.
>> SO YES, I MEAN THE THE HEAT
IN THE FOR SALE HOMES ONE POINT
FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS THE SOLAR
ELEMENT SEVEN HUNDRED EIGHTY
NINE THOUSAND DOLLARS AROUND
ABOUT ONE POINT TWO MILLION
DOLLARS.
ALL THAT'S GOING TO BE PAID
THROUGH THE TAX FINANCING BY
US.
THANK YOU.
SO ANYONE ELSE I'D LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
.
THANKS AGAIN OF LORD ROBERTSON
HOMES JUST QUICKLY THERE WAS A
TOPIC ABOUT BEING ILLEGAL IN
THE R OR A WE DO NEED A
VARIANCE.
WE WERE SCHEDULED TWICE FOR IT
AND MOTHER NATURE DIDN'T LET US
COME DOWN HERE.
THEY CANCELED BOTH ZIBA
HEARINGS WERE SCHEDULED FOR I
THINK THE TWENTY SECOND OF THIS
MONTH AND THERE IS A CONDITION
ON THE ZONING ORDINANCE THAT
HOPEFULLY YOU'LL PASS TONIGHT
THAT INCLUDES THE NEED TO HAVE
A VARIANCE FROM THE ZIBA SO
FULLY WE'RE WE'RE NOT TRYING TO
PULL ANY FAST ONES HERE BY ANY
MEANS OBVIOUSLY SPOKE TO THE
BROWNFIELD I CAN WAIT TILL THE
NEXT PUBLIC HEARING PLEASE.
JUST APPROPRIATE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO ONCE AGAIN.
I WANT TO START BY
ACKNOWLEDGING THAT I SAID MANY
TIMES I THINK I SAID A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO WHEN WE WERE
SEATED AS A NEW BODY THAT I
THINK WE HAVE TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THIS LAND DOESN'T BELONG
TO US IN THE FIRST PLACE.
AND SO THE IDEA THAT IT'S GOING
TO BE IN TURN FOR PROFIT IS
REALLY OFFENSIVE TO ME.
I SPENT THE LAST TWENTY SIX
YEARS WITHIN A MILE OF THAT
SITE LIVING DENHA MILE THAT
SITE AND THE LAST THREE YEARS
WITHIN A STONE'S LITERAL
STONE'S REALM OF IT WORKING ON
SOME COMMUNITY GARDEN PROJECTS
UP THERE AND SO IT'S A SPECIAL
PARCEL AND IT'S A SHAME THAT
SEVENTY
SIX PERCENT OF THE
EXISTING TREES ON IT AND SIXTY
PERCENT OF THE LANDMARK PRESENT
ARE GOING TO BE IT'S JUST IT'S
A CLEAR CUT LIKE EVERYTHING
ELSE WE DO AROUND HERE.
THERE'S NOTHING SPECIAL ABOUT
THIS PROJECT.
AND BEFORE I GET INTO THE
SPECIFIC PLAN THINGS I THINK WE
NEED TO FACE UP TO THE FACT
THAT NO MATTER WHAT WE DO, THE
TOWNSHIPS ARE GOING TO DEVELOP
AND THEY'RE GOING TO DEVELOP IN
THE WAY THAT THEY WANT TO DO.
AND YEAH, WE HAVEN'T REACHED
OUT AND WE HAVEN'T DONE A
PROPER PARTNERSHIP THE
TOWNSHIPS WE HAVEN'T DONE
PROPER PLANNING IN A REGIONAL
WAY BUT THAT'S NEITHER HERE NOR
THERE.
WE DON'T BUILD IT HERE.
THEY'RE STILL BUILDING IN THE
TOWNSHIPS BECAUSE I GET DOZENS
AND DOZENS OF CONTRACTS LINED
UP ALL THROUGH NEXT YEAR TO
REPAINT THE BUILDERS PAINT IN
THESE BEAUTIFUL HOUSES THEY'RE
BUILDING OUT THERE AND ALSO
APARTMENTS AND TOWNHOUSES.
WE NEED HOUSING.
WE NEED HOUSING EVERYWHERE.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S A
SURPRISE.
THE WHOLE PLANET DOES BUT NOT
ALL HOUSING IS ALIKE IN THE
CITY OF HAS PRIORITIZED ITS
HOUSING THIS DOESN'T HAVE THE
SITE HAS IT IT'S TYPICAL.
IT'S ACTUALLY I HAD SOME
FRIENDS WHO ARE FROM OTHER
COMMUNITIES WHO WHO FOLLOW
COUNCIL AS CLOSELY AS I DO AND
THEY WANT ME TO COME UP HERE
AND SAY IT'S AN INSULT TO THIS
CITY AND THE RESIDENTS THIS
PROJECT NO OFFENSE TO THE
DEVELOPERS THE SITE HAS NO NET
ZERO HOUSING SO THERE'S NO LOW
INCOME HOUSING IT HAS NO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THE SITE HAS NO SENIOR HOUSING.
IT HAS NO A.D.A ACCESSIBLE
HOUSING.
IT HAS NO COOPERATIVE HOUSING,
NO LIVE WORK HOUSING, NO GROUP
HOUSING.
WE DESERVE BETTER.
THIS SITE PLAN IS I THINK THE
MOST OFFENSIVE THING TO SOME
OF MY FORMER CONSTITUENTS AND
MY FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS AT
ARROWOOD IS THE WAY THAT THIS
IS PACKED AND CLUSTERED NEXT TO
ARROWOOD THAT THE LARGE
APARTMENT UNITS ARE MASP RIGHT
UP AGAINST THE ARROWOOD
FACILITY.
BUT THERE'S NO NOTION
OF CONNECTING THOSE COMMUNITIES
OR CREATING COOPERATIVE
COMMUNITIES.
IT'S JUST A WAY TO STUFF THE
HOUSES ON THIS PROPERTY AND THE
FOLKS WHO SAY THAT PERFECT
SHOULDN'T GET IN THE WAY OF THE
GOOD SHOULD RECALL THAT IN MANY
INSTANCES WE HAVE SAID NO TO
THE NOT PERFECT AND GOTTEN
BETTER AND FINEST EXAMPLE THAT
I CAN RECALL AT LEAST IN MY
TIME ON COUNCIL IS THE LOCKWOOD
DEVELOPMENT.
WE SAID NO TO A LOT BUT ON THE
INAPPROPRIATE SITE ON THE WEST
SIDE AND WE GOT A MUCH LARGER
AND BETTER PROJECT ON THE SOUTH
SIDE AND SO IT DOESN'T HURT TO
SAY NO TO A BAD IDEA.
THANK YOU
.
ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC IS
BOOGY
.
I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON THE
LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SO YOU
KNOW IN THIS PUBLIC HEARINGS
CLOSED PUBLIC NO.
THREE RESOLUTION TO THE VILLAGE
OF ANN ARBOR ONE SIX EIGHT ZERO
DAVOREN ROAD REDEVELOPMENT
BROWNFIELD PLAN.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO'D LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
JOHN GURSKY FIVE OR FIVE IN
PLACE?
JUST A FEW BRIEF COMMENTS JUST
TO CLARIFY THERE ARE A LOT
OF GOOD ELEMENTS OF THIS
PROJECT.
THERE ARE ELEMENTS THAT COULD
BE BETTER.
THIS IS DEFINITELY NOT THE
PERFECT BEING THE ENEMY OF THE
GOOD.
IT IS ABSOLUTELY CLEAR FROM
ENGINEERING CALCULATIONS THAT
BENEFITS FROM REDUCED
COMMUNITIES AND REDUCED BY
VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED ARE
SUBSTANTIALLY LESS THAN THE
NEGATIVE IMPACT FROM THIS
DEVELOPMENT BURNING NATURAL
GAS.
THIS DEVELOPMENT COULD GO
FORWARD WITH SOME SLIGHT
IMPROVEMENTS.
AS I'VE SUGGESTED EARLIER, THIS
IS NOT A MATTER OF CANCELING
THE PROJECT, NOT DOING THE
PROJECT.
THIS IS A MATTER OF IMPROVING
ON THE PROJECT.
IT CAN BE DONE IT IS BEING DONE
ALL OVER THE PLACE.
IT IS BEING DONE IN THIS CITY
AND IT CAN BE DONE WITH THIS
PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
THANK
THANK.
TAKE AMERICAN JOBS AGAIN
BROWNFIELD.
MY APOLOGIES.
THANK YOU.
DISCUSSION NO YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY
RIGHT.
I DID TOUCH ON THE BROWNFIELD
BUT I THOUGHT IT WAS RELEVANT
TO THE FACT I WOULD SPEAK TO
THE BROWNFIELD SPECIFICALLY AS
YOU KNOW STATE LAW ALLOWS LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS TO REIMBURSE
PRIVATE DEVELOPERS FOR CLEANING
UP THE CAMINADA SITES USING TAX
INCREMENT FINANCING.
THIS IS COMPLETELY AT THE
CITY'S DISCRETION.
THE VILLAGE COUNCIL HAS AN OLD
LANDFILL THAT'S EMITTING
SOMETHING UNDER THIS BROWNFIELD
PLAN THE LANDFILL STAYS BUT THE
DEVELOPER PUTS IN SOME
SPECIALIZED BUILDING
FOUNDATIONS, PASSIVE VENTING
SYSTEMS AND A METHANE
INTERCEPTOR TRENCH.
IT'S ASKING FOR THIRTY ONE
MILLION OVER THIRTEEN YEARS THE
TWENTY SIX MILLION TO PROTECT
THE RESIDENTS FROM CONTAMINANTS
IS NECESSARY.
I AGREE WITH THAT BUT THEY'RE
ALSO ASKING FOR FIVE MILLION
FOR NON ENVIRONMENTAL NON
REMEDIATION ACTIVITIES.
HERE'S THE THING THE CITY'S
BROWNFIELD POLICY REQUIRES THAT
IF SUCH NON ENVIRONMENTAL
ACTIVITIES ARE IN THE PLAN THE
DEVELOPER MUST PROVIDE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING 15 PERCENT
OF UNITS AT 60 PERCENT AMONG
BUT THERE IS NO AFFORDABLE
HOUSING HERE.
INSTEAD THE DEVELOPERS
SUBSTITUTING SUSTAINABILITY
ELEMENTS AND A NEW ROUNDABOUT
FOR THAT AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SO YOUR TASK TONIGHT IS TO
DECIDE WHETHER THAT TRADEOFF IS
WORTH IT TO ME IT'S NOT TOTALLY
UNACCEPTABLE FIRST OF ALL
BECAUSE THIS PROJECT IS VERY
UNSUSTAINABLE.
IT'S NOT ADDRESSING CLIMATE
CHANGE.
IT'S CONTRIBUTING TO IT.
YES, WE'VE HEARD ABOUT THE
SOLAR THAT POWERS THE
STREETLIGHTS THAT'S ON THE
CLUBHOUSE AND THE PUMPS IN THE
FOR SALE UNITS.
BUT AS I TOLD YOU IN THE
PREVIOUS HEARING, IT TURNS OUT
THAT WE'RE BEING ASKED TO PAY
THE INCREMENTAL COSTS OF ALL
THOSE ELEMENTS AND ROUNDABOUT
SO THE WAY I SEE IT, THEY WANT
US TO PAY FOR THOSE
ENVIRONMENTAL AND TRAFFIC
IMPROVEMENTS AND YET THEY'RE
SAYING WHERE WE WANT TO
SUBSTITUTE THOSE IMPROVEMENTS
FOR THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
STANDARD IN THE CITY.
BROWNFIELD POLICY SO THEY PAY
NOTHING.
WE REIMBURSE EVERYTHING AND
THEY GET TO BYPASS THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING REQUIREMENT
AS I SEE IT.
I MEAN I WISH I WERE WRONG AND
MAYBE I AM AND I'M SURE THE
DEVELOPER WILL ADDRESS THIS.
THEIR VIEW I SUSPECT IS THAT
BECAUSE THE CITY DID NOT
REQUIRE ANY OF THIS STUFF THE
CITY SHOULD PAY FOR NOT THEM.
SO YOU HAVE TO DECIDE WHETHER
YOU BUY THAT.
HERE'S WHAT I THINK WE SHOULD
DO OFFER THE DEVELOPER THREE
OPTIONS OPTION ONE, THEY HAVE
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING THE CITY
POLICY REQUIRES OPTION TO
REMOVE THE FIVE MILLION REQUEST
FOR NON ENVIRONMENTAL
ACTIVITIES OR OPTION THREE TO
FOUR ELECTRIFICATION.
REMEMBER THE CITY HAS TOTAL
DISCRETION.
WE CAN SET ANY CONDITION WE
WANT IF THEY DON'T AGREE AND
JUST TAKE OUT THE FIVE MILLION
.
THANK YOU
ONE MORE TIME I
SERVED ACTUALLY SERVED ON THE
BROWNFIELD A BOARD REVIEW WHEN
I WAS IN COUNCIL AND IT WAS
IT'S PRETTY INTERESTING THING
AND IT'S AT LEAST AS
INTERESTING AS THE INSURANCE
BOARD WHICH I HEARD YOU'RE
GOING TO GET RID OF TONIGHT.
I DON'T KNOW WHO'S GOING TO
OVERSEE THAT THAT FUND.
I'M A LITTLE CONCERNED ABOUT
THAT AND BECAUSE BECAUSE I ALSO
YOU'RE CONSIDERING GETTING A
BROWNFIELD BOARD REVIEW SO I
ENCOURAGE YOU TO READ THE
BROWNFIELD REPORT AND THE
CONDITIONS THAT HAVE NOT YET
BEEN MET FOR THIS TO BE
APPROVED BECAUSE THERE'S
SEVERAL TO NOT SAY YES TO THIS
UNTIL THOSE CONDITIONS ARE IN
WRITING AS ANOTHER CALLER AND
AS THE REPORT POINTS OUT, IT'S
NOT REALLY A CLEANUP WHICH
BASICALLY SOME ADVANCED RADON
SYSTEMS ARE GOING IN THESE
HOUSES SOME SPECIAL FOUNDATIONS
AND SOME TRENCHES AND THINGS
LIKE THAT.
THIRTY ONE MILLION DOLLARS SO
THE POLLUTER MULTIPLE POLLUTERS
INCLUDING THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN WHO USES FOR
LANDFILL FOR DECADES SCALE AND
WE PAY FOR THE SUPPOSED CLEANUP
BY FOREGOING TAX REVENUE.
THAT'S NOT RIGHT.
THIS STATE GIVES US THE
AUTHORITY TO DO THIS BUT IT
DOESN'T REQUIRE US TO DO SO.
IT DOESN'T REQUIRE US TO
SUBSIDIZE ANY OF THIS.
AND FROM AN INVESTMENT
PERSPECTIVE OF THE CITY, IT'S A
TERRIBLE IDEA TO TAKE.
I KNOW THIS IS HOW IT'S
SUPPOSED TO FUNCTION BUT IT'S A
TERRIBLE IDEA TO GIVE THE
DEVELOPER GODS FOR THE FIRST
PERIOD OF THAT LOAN, THAT TAX
PAYMENT WHEN WE SHOULD HAVE
THAT MONEY IN OUR BANK EARNING
INTEREST FOR THE EVENTUAL
SUPPORT OF THIS INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT THEY'RE PUTTING IN.
BUT THAT THAT'S A WAY THAT'S
GOING TO GO DOWN.
SO IT DOESN'T HAVE MEDICI
SUPPORT IT NEEDS IT DOESN'T
HAVE THE TIPS CAPTURE AGREEMENT
AND START DATE IN PLACE AND IT
DOESN'T HAVE THE DURATION
OF THAT WRITTEN AGREEMENT.
THOSE ARE NONSTARTERS.
THEY SHOULD NOT BE APPROVED NOW
I THINK THAT WE NEED TO SET
ASIDE THE COUNCIL NEEDS TO SET
ASIDE PERSONAL INTEREST FOR THE
PUBLIC INTEREST ON THIS MATTER
.
IT'S A BIG CHUNK OF CHANGE
WE'RE GIVING OUT.
I KNOW THAT A LOT
OF DEVELOPMENT HAPPENS IN THIS
COMMUNITY SIMPLY BECAUSE
COUNCIL WANTED PROPERTY TAX TO
PLAY WITH AND THAT'S FINE AT
SOME POINT THIS WILL BE
DEVELOPED AND IT WILL BE
DEVELOPED PROPERLY IN A WAY
THAT SUPPORTS THE SUSTAINABLE
COMMITMENT THAT WE HAVE MADE TO
THIS PLANET SUPPOSEDLY THIS
ISN'T IT AND THIS SO-CALLED
CLEANUP COULD COME BACK AND
BITE US IN THE FUTURE WHEN
EVERYBODY'S METHANE OUT
OF THEIR BASEMENTS JUST LIKE
THEY'RE DIOXIN.
WE SHOULD NOT BE PAYING
POLLUTER CLEANUP'S ANN ARBOR IS
A GEM IN THIS CITY IN THIS
STATE.
I THINK EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT
AND IN THIS COUNTRY AND WE WE
LET IT JUST TURN TO GARBAGE.
WE'VE BEEN WELL BELOW WHAT WE
SHOULD BE REQUIRING OUR
DEVELOPERS TO GET THIS KIND
OF MONEY AND TAPPING IT.
LOWERTOWN IT'S GOING TO HAPPEN
HERE.
I HOPE IT DOESN'T HAPPEN HERE.
DON'T LET IT HAPPEN HERE.
REJECT THIS PLAN.
THANK YOU
, JIM.
LOG ON AGAIN.
SOMEONE TO MENTIONED TREES WE
ARE PLANTING SIXTEEN TREES AS
PART OF THE DEVELOPMENT SO
CERTAINLY ABOVE AND BEYOND WHAT
WOULD BE TAKEN OUT IN REGARD TO
BROWNFIELD SO WE'RE NOT ASKING
FOR ANY UPFRONT REVOLVING LOAN
FUND.
EVERYTHING THAT'S BEING PAID IS
PAID UP FRONT.
WE'RE TALKING WITH TWENTY
MILLION IN JUST ENVIRONMENTAL
COSTS INCLUDING THAT'S ON OUR
DIME THAT'S UP FRONT.
THERE WOULD BE NO MONEY IF THIS
IF THIS PROJECT DIDN'T GO
FORWARD.
SO IN ORDER TO PAY THE TWENTY
MILLION DOLLARS ENVIRONMENTAL
COST OBVIOUSLY THAT'S A HUGE
IMPACT TO THE DEVELOPER.
THAT'S WHY THIS HAS SAT THERE
FOR SO LONG.
WE'RE NOT ASKING FOR THE
ADDITIONAL COSTS ABOVE THAT.
IT'S NOT A PD.
WE'RE NOT ASKING FOR A PD WHICH
WOULD HAVE SOME OF THOSE PUBLIC
BENEFITS.
WE'RE PROVIDING THOSE YES.
WE'RE ASKING FOR SOME OF THOSE
BACK IN THE BROWNFIELD.
BUT AGAIN, THESE ARE UPFRONT
COSTS OUT OF OUR POCKET THAT
AREN'T IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT
YOU CAN REQUIRE OF US.
WE'RE OFFERING THESE IN
CONJUNCTION WITH THE
DEVELOPMENT.
THE PLAN WAS VETTED BY THE
COUNCIL BROWNFIELD SUBCOMMITTEE
.
IT WAS A UNANIMOUS VOTE.
SO THAT WAS IN JANUARY.
LISTEN, THERE'S UNIQUE
CHALLENGES TO THE SITE.
OBVIOUSLY IT NEEDS HELP.
IT WILL NOT DEVELOP WITHOUT A
BROWNFIELD CARE.
WHAT ANYBODY TELLS YOU THIS
SITE WILL NEVER DEVELOP WITHOUT
A BROWNFIELD WHAT WE'RE
PROVIDING IS SOMETHING THAT I
THINK THE CITY HAS OVER THREE
YEARS AND THE NEIGHBORS HAVE
CITY STAFF BOARDS COUNCIL LIKE
YOU RECOGNIZE THAT THERE'S A
POSITIVE FOR THIS PROJECT.
THERE'S A POSITIVE TO THE
ECONOMY, THERE'S A POSITIVE TO
THE ENVIRONMENT AND THAT
REQUIRES A BROWNFIELD TO
DEVELOP THIS.
SO IF IT WAS A CLEAN SITE WE
WOULDN'T ASK FOR A DIME.
THIS IS NOT A CLEAN SITE.
THERE'S A LOT OF CHALLENGES SO
WE'RE HAPPY TO GO THROUGH THE
BROWNFIELD.
WE'VE GOT OUR EXPERTS FROM
ESSANY THAT CAN GO THROUGH ANY
OF THE DETAILS YOU'RE LOOKING
FOR.
BUT AGAIN THIS SITE NEEDS A
BROWNFIELD AND I DON'T THINK
ANYBODY ARGUE THAT SO THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU.
PLEASE BRADSTONE.
I'M WITH ME.
MR. LOCHER MENTIONED WE'RE THE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTANT A
COUPLE OF TECHNICAL PIECES
ASSOCIATED WITH THE BROWNFIELD
PLAN.
THIS SITE WAS DUMPED ON IN THE
FORTIES AND FIFTIES AND THEN
THE PORTION WHERE THE
REDEVELOPMENT IS BEING BUILT
WAS USED AS A CONSTRUCTION
PROPERTY AND IT'S FILLED WITH
UNSUITABLE SOIL SO THAT YOU CAN
BUILD AND BUILD ON UP TO THIRTY
FEET DOWN INTO THE GROUND.
AND THE BROWNFIELD STATUTE IN
MICHIGAN IS REALLY AN ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT STATUTE WITH AN
ENVIRONMENTAL FOCUS.
THIS SITE HAS HAD ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES THAT
HAVE PREVENTED ITS
REDEVELOPMENT.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES
ARE INTERWOVEN WITH THE SOILS
CHALLENGES, THE GEOTECHNICAL
CHALLENGES ALL OF THE THINGS
THAT THE BROWNFIELD STATUTE
ACROSS THE STATE HAS BEEN AN
EFFECTIVE TOOL FOR PROMOTING
REDEVELOPMENT.
AND SO AS PART OF THE
BROWNFIELD PROCESS WHICH IS
TYPICAL THROUGHOUT MICHIGAN,
THE FOCUS IS ON DUE CARE WHICH
MEANS THAT IT'S REDEVELOPED IN
A WAY THAT'S SAFE FOR USE SO
PEOPLE AREN'T EXPOSED TO UNSAFE
ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS.
AND WE LOOKED AT WHAT WE'VE
BEEN ASSESSING THE SITE FOR
OVER THREE YEARS.
WE LOOKED AT WHAT ARE THE COSTS
ASSOCIATED WITH ACTUALLY
CLEANING THE SITE UP.
THAT WOULD BE SOMETHING CLOSE
TO ONE HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS
TO TO GET RID OF ALL THE
MATERIAL THERE.
IT'S SIMPLY NOT REALISTIC.
BUT WHAT IS PROVEN OUT AT OTHER
SITES THROUGHOUT THE STATE AND
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY ARE
REDEVELOPMENTS USING
ENGINEERING CONTROLS TO PROVIDE
A SAFE ENVIRONMENT FOR REUSE.
AND SO THERE IS NO WAY OTHER
THAN SPECIALIZED FOUNDATIONS
THERE IS NO WAY OTHER INVENTING
SYSTEMS, VAPOR MITIGATION
SYSTEMS AND THOSE WILL ALLOW
THE SITE TO BE REUSED IN A SAFE
WAY AND HAVE AREAS ACCESSIBLE
TO THE PUBLIC AND SAFEWAY AND
IN WAYS THAT CONTROL THE ISSUES
PRIMARILY METHANE ASSOCIATED
WITH THE DUMPING THAT WAS DONE
IN THE PAST.
THANK YOU.
SO ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
MISS BOOGY
, ALEX LOWE, DO YOU
HAVE A COMMENT?
HI, THANK YOU.
THIS IS ALEX LOWE CALLING IN
FROM FROM ST. I REALLY DO HATE
THE FACT THAT WE HAVE TO SPEND
THE MONEY ON A BROWNFIELD'S
LIKE THIS AND PERHAPS IF THE
UNIVERSITY ANNOUNCES A TIME
MACHINE SO SO THAT WE CAN GO
BACK IN TIME AND PREVENT THE
SAFE FROM EVER BEING POLLUTION
IN THE FIRST PLACE, WE WOULDN'T
HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT THAT.
SO YEAH, I GET IT.
I GET ON TO YOU HAVE AN I GUESS
UM BUT IN THE MEANTIME WE HAVE
TO LIVE WITH WITH WHERE WE ARE
RIGHT NOW FROM NINETEEN FORTY
TO NINETEEN TO NINETEEN SEVENTY
THE POPULATION OF ARBOR WAS
INCREASING AT A LINEAR RATE
OF OF ROUGHLY TWO THOUSAND
THREE HUNDRED AND FORTY PEOPLE
PER YEAR.
IF THAT HAD CONTINUED TO FROM
NINETEEN SEVENTY WHEN THE
POPULATION WAS AROUND ONE
HUNDRED THOUSAND PEOPLE TO
TODAY WE WOULD HAVE ABOUT TWO
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE
THOUSAND AND ARBORISTS LIVING
WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS.
SO THIS THIS IS A DROP IN THE
BUCKET OF UH OF OF WHAT WE NEED
AND IF WE NEED TO UH TO PROVIDE
THAT'S UH THAT'S THAT'S SORT
OF GROUND I FEEL FOR EFFORT
THAT'S WHAT THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE
TO DO.
IT'S NOT A DECISION THAT WE
THAT WE REALLY HAVE MUCH TO DO
OVER WE CAN WE CAN EITHER
CHOOSE TO CLEAN IT UP OR WE CAN
CHOOSE TO LEAVE A POLLUTED MESS
FOR THE NEXT GENERATION TO UH
TO DEAL WITH.
IT'S UNFORTUNATE THAT PREVIOUS
GENERATIONS CHOSE TO LIVE IT A
POLLUTED MESS FOR US TODAY BUT
THEY WERE DOING WHAT THEY
THOUGHT WAS BEST AND NOW WE
HAVE TO DO WHAT WHAT WE THINK
IS BEST AND WHAT I THINK IS
BEST IS FOR US TO CLEAN IT UP,
NOT LEAVE IT FOR THE NEXT
GENERATION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
FOUR SIX FOUR GO AHEAD BORROW
AGAIN FOR TWENTY ONE THIRD
STREET.
THIS IS THE BALL HANGING I'M
LEADING UP TO THAT BUT I DO
WANT TO SAY THAT I BELIEVE WHAT
YOU SAID ADDRESSES THE CONCERNS
EXPRESSED BY A COUPLE
OF PREVIOUS SPEAKERS.
SPECIFICALLY MR. VASQUEZ
SUGGESTED THAT I BELIEVE MR.
MURPHY WITH HIS EXPERTIZE HAS
CALCULATED THAT THE REDUCTION
THE CLIMATE BENEFITS LEAD TO
THE REDUCTION COMMUTING INTO
THE CITY DOES NOT OUTWEIGH THE
BENEFIT.
THE GREATER BENEFITS OR THE
GREATER THE GREATER DETRIMENT
THAT WILL BE CAUSED BY THE GAS
HOOKUPS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION.
SO I HOPE WE CAN DISPENSE WITH
THAT ARGUMENT.
AND FURTHERMORE, NOBODY'S
ARGUING THIS SHOULDN'T BE A
DEVELOPMENT.
I HAVEN'T HEARD THAT TONIGHT
AND I DON'T FEEL THAT WAY.
IN FACT, AT ONE POINT I THINK
THAT WE DO THAT THIS COULD BE A
VERY DENSE NEW ARROWOOD.
I WOULD TOO.
I WAS HOPING FOR THAT.
APPARENTLY THAT'S NOT GOING TO
BE ABLE TO HAPPEN OK, BUT I
DON'T THINK ANYBODY'S ARGUING
THAT IT'S NOT GOING TO TAKE
BLOMFIELD TO A TO BE ABLE TO
DEVELOP THIS SITE BECAUSE
OF HOW THAT FIELD IS STRUCTURED
AND I WOULD ENCOURAGE THE
COUNCIL MEMBERS TO LOOK VERY
CAREFULLY AT HOW THIS PLAN IS
STRUCTURED BY THE DEVELOPER AND
PAY ATTENTION TO WHAT AT LEAST
THREE SPEAKERS HAVE TOLD YOU
ABOUT IN TERMS OF HOW IT IS
STRUCTURED AND HOW IT PERHAPS
CAN GIVE THE BENEFIT THAT WE
NEED.
AND I WOULD JUST ENCOURAGE YOU
TO JUST GIVE IT TO THOSE
INSTEAD I THINK YOU CAN GET A
LITTLE BIT BETTER ABOUT THIS.
THIS PROPOSAL IS I THINK YOU
SHOULD HOLD OFF ON IT AND
THAT'S WHAT I HEAR THAT THE YOU
APPROVE IT CONTINGENT ON
APPROVAL OF THE VARIANCE WHY
YOU SHOULD VOTE YOU SHOULD
REALLY DELAY IT PLEASE TONIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS UP AT THIS
TIME
AND HIS CLOSE WE HAVE THE
FORCE TO REGULAR SESSION
MEETING MINUTES OF THE
OF FEBRUARY 21, 20 23 MAY HAVE
EMOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE
MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SACRIFIED COUNCIL MEMBER
A DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE.
IF ANYONE FAVOR POSED THE
MINUTES ARE APPROVED BY ONE IN
AUDIENCE OF MEN TO CHAPTER 55
ZONING ZONING OF SIX SEVEN
POINT SIX ACRES WPE TOWNSHIP
DISTRICT AN HOUR ONE SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
TO ASK
FOR A MULTIFAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT ONE SIX ZERO ROAD ONE
SEVEN ONE ZERO DAVOREN ROAD TWO
SIX SEVEN ZERO PONTIAC TRAIL
TWO SIX SEVEN TO PONTIAC TRAIL
TWO SIX SEVEN EIGHT PONTIAC
TRAIL AND TWO SIX EIGHT TWO
PONTIAC TRAIL BY
COUNTERMELODIES SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER JUST THANK YOU
AS YOU WERE ALREADY WHERE WE
WILL BE SPEAKING TO THIS
PROJECT THREE TIMES TONIGHT ON
OUR AGENDA THIS FIRST TIME WE
VOTE ON THE REZONING SO I WILL
NOT GO FAR INTO THE PROJECTS
DETAILS THIS PROJECT AS YOU
HAVE HEARD WITH CLAIMS
OF FORMER LANDFILL SITE THAT
HAS GONE NEGLECTED AND
UNDEVELOPED FOR DECADES.
IT WILL CREATE FOUR HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY FOUR UNITS OF HOUSING
WITH A SECOND PHASE TO COME.
THIS WILL BE A MIX OF OWNER
OCCUPIED TOWN HOMES AND
APARTMENT RENTALS AT MULTIPLE
PRICE POINTS.
THE DEVELOPER HAS AGREED TO
MAKE THE ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
FOUR SINGLE FAMILY TOWNHOUSE
STYLE HOMES FULLY ELECTRIC
AFTER A PRODUCTIVE SERIES
OF DISCUSSIONS WITH THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION PLANNING STAFF AND
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
IN OTHER WORDS, THE PROJECT
DIDN'T COME IN THAT WAY.
THE DEVELOPER AGREED TO PROVIDE
THAT AMENITY THE GARDEN STYLE
APARTMENTS WILL RELY ON GAS
HEATING.
WE'VE HEARD FROM MANY OF YOU
THAT SINCE COUNCIL IS REZONING
THIS PROJECT WE SHOULD MAKE
FULL ELECTRIFICATION A
CONDITION OF THAT REZONING
REZONING UNLESS WE ARE REZONING
TO A POD IS NOT AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR COUNCIL TO EXTRACT
UNLIMITED PUBLIC GOODS.
OUR ZONING DECISIONS AS A CITY
MUST BE CONSISTENT.
WE HAVE BEEN ZONING PROJECTS
NEAR THIS LOCATION WITHOUT
REQUIRING FULL ELECTRIFICATION.
WE HAVE NO BASIS IN LAW TO DO
SO.
THAT IS THE ONLY QUESTION.
IT IS NOT WHETHER FULL
ELECTRIFICATION IS FEASIBLE OR
WHETHER THE SUPPLY CHAIN FOR
HEAT PUMPS EXISTS.
IT IS WHETHER WE HAVE A BASIS
IN LAW OR NOT TO REQUIRE FULL
OF ELECTRIFICATION.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT I WANT
BUT IMPOSING BUT IMPOSING IT
PROJECT BY PROJECT ON SOME
PROJECTS BUT NOT OTHERS IS
NEITHER FAIR NOR AN EFFECTIVE
WAY TO GET IT.
IT MUST BE ESTABLISHED IN
CODE AND LAW AS A UNIVERSAL
REQUIREMENT AND EXPECTATION FOR
EVERY DEVELOPER WHO WANTS TO
BUILD IN ANN ARBOR IN THE NEAR
FUTURE.
THE QUESTIONS BEFORE US IS
WHETHER THE PROPOSED ARE FOR A
ZONING IS CONSISTENT WITH THE
ADJACENT ZONING SURROUNDING
LAND USES AND WITH THE LAND USE
ELEMENT OF THE CITY'S
COMPREHENSIVE PLANS.
THE ANSWERS TO THESE QUESTIONS
ARE YES THIS DOES NOT MEAN THAT
WE HOLD OUR NOSE AND VOTE FOR
THIS PROJECT EVEN WITHOUT FULL
ELECTRIFICATION THERE ARE OTHER
SUSTAINABILITY BENEFITS OF THIS
PROJECT FOREMOST AMONG THEM
BEING THAT IT RECLAIMS A FORMER
LANDFILL SITE THAT HAS GONE
UNDEVELOPED FOR DECADES AND
REMEDIATED IT TO THE POINT
WHERE IT IS SAFE TO HOUSE
PEOPLE THERE.
THE HOUSING THAT IT WILL
PROVIDE MAY TURN SOME COMMUTERS
INTO RESIDENTS.
IT WILL CERTAINLY PROVIDE
RENTAL HOUSING AT LOWER THAN
DOWNTOWN PRICES, WHICH IS
SOMETHING THE CITY SORELY NEEDS
AND IS WORKING VERY HARD TO
ENCOURAGE WITH T7 ONE ZONING
ELSEWHERE IN THE CITY IT WILL
ALSO BRING INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENTS TO PONTIAC TRAIL.
IT WILL NOT DEGRADE PONTIAC
TRAIL.
IT IS ONE OF THE ONLY
MECHANISMS WE HAVE TO BRING
NEEDED INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENTS BY THE
CONTRIBUTION THAT THIS
DEVELOPER WILL MAKE TO FINDING
AN URGENTLY NEEDED ROUNDABOUT
AT PONTIAC AND DAVOREN I IT
EXCUSE ME I SUPPORTED THE
PROJECT ON PLANNING COMMISSION
AND I SUPPORT IT HERE.
FURTHER DISCUSSION
FOR MY PART
I.
I SUPPORT THE REZONING FOR THE
REASONS IDENTIFIED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH.
WE DO HAVE A WIDE VARIETY
OF INTERESTS IN THE CITY TO
ACCOMPLISH.
WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF FOLKS WHO
WORK IN ANN ARBOR AND DON'T
HAVE THE ABILITY TO LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR.
THEIR PRESENCE IN THE CITY
PROVIDES OF COURSE TAX BENEFITS
.
IT'S THEIR PRESENCE IN THE CITY
PROVIDES SUSTAINABILITY
BENEFITS.
BUT I THINK IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT
TO NOTE THAT THEIR THEIR
PRESENCE IN THE CITY WILL
PROVIDE INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT
COMMUNITY BENEFITS.
WE WE IMPROVE WHEN WE WHEN WE
HAVE MORE FOLKS WHO LIVE HERE.
ANN ARBOR IS I THINK A
COMMUNITY THAT IS WELCOMING AND
LOOKING FOR EVERYONE SUPPLY AND
DEMAND IN OUR CITY AS WELL.
IT'S NOT A JOKE WHEN IT COMES
TO OUR OUR HOUSING CRISIS, OUR
AFFORDABILITY SITUATION RESULTS
FROM MORE PEOPLE WANTING TO
LIVE HERE THAN HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO DO SO.
WE DO HAVE A SUPPLY PROBLEM.
THIS WILL BE THIS ZONING WILL
ENABLE US TO MAKE A AN
INCREMENTAL IMPROVEMENT IN THAT
AREA AND SO I'M GOING TO BE IN
SUPPORT OF IT.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
YEAH, THANKS.
I ALSO AM IN SUPPORT OF THIS.
I THINK COUNCIL MEMBERS SPOKE
VERY ELOQUENTLY ABOUT ALL
OF THAT ELEMENTS OF WHAT WE
NEEDED TO LOOK AT IN TERMS
OF REZONING AND ALSO SOME
OF THE BENEFITS OF THE THE SITE
PLAN ITSELF FOR MYSELF IS MUCH
YOU KNOW, WE'LL DISCUSS THE
SITE PLAN LATER AND OBVIOUSLY
THE SITE IS PARTICULARLY
DIFFICULT IN TERMS OF AND
THAT'S WHY THERE'S THE
BROWNFIELD PLAN ASSOCIATED WITH
IT.
BUT IN GENERAL I MEAN OUR OUR
RESPONSIBILITY IS TO THINK
ABOUT THIS ZONING IN TERMS
OF WHAT'S THE SURROUNDING LAND
USE AND WHAT IS THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLANS
SUGGEST.
AND WHEN I DO THAT THIS
REZONING THAT'S THE ONLY WAY
I'M GOING TO LOOK AT THIS
REZONING.
IS THAT APPROPRIATE OR NOT?
I I THINK THERE ARE MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY WHO ARE ASKING
FOR COMMUNITY BENEFITS THAT
WOULD ONLY BE OBTAINABLE
THROUGH A PD AND IF THE ONLY
THINGS THAT POTENTIALLY AS
COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND THAT
WOULD REQUIRE FOR US TO THINK
ABOUT REZONING ONLY WITHIN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR WHICH DOES AT
THIS POINT IN TIME WHICH SEEMS
A LITTLE BIT OF AN UNREASONABLE
REQUEST AND FUNDAMENTALLY
ILLEGAL.
SO YOU KNOW, I'M SUPPORTIVE
OF THIS REZONING TONIGHT FOR
THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL.
RACHMAN I THINK I'LL JUST ADD
THAT I'M SUPPORTING THIS TOO
FOR THE REASONS THAT HAVE
ALREADY BEEN MENTIONED.
BUT I ALSO DID WANT TO SAY
THAT, YOU KNOW, I'M HEARING OUR
COMMUNITY WANTS US TO GO ALL
ELECTRIC AND NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
I WANT THAT IT CAN BE DONE.
WE KNOW IT CAN BE DONE.
PEOPLE ARE DOING IT.
SO THIS FOR ME IS NOT ABOUT
BUYING INTO AN ARGUMENT THAT
IT'S NOT FEASIBLE OR POSSIBLE.
IT IS THIS IS A QUESTION ABOUT
ZONING.
THE ZONING TO ME IS APPROPRIATE
FOR THE AREA.
THE ADDITION OF FOUR HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY FOUR UNITS
OF HOUSING OF MULTIPLE TYPES IS
A NET COMMUNITY BENEFIT AND SO
THAT'S WHY I'LL BE SUPPORTING
IT FOR THE DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSED IS APPROVED SEE ONE
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTIONS TWO
ONE TO TWO TO FIVE AND TO NINE
OF CHAPTER TWENTY SIX SOLID
WASTE OF TITLE TO SO WEIGHT
SOLID WASTE OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY THEN I REMOVE BY COUNCILOR
DISH SECOND BY COUNCILOR DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C ONE
COUNCILOR BRITISH.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY A COUPLE
OF WORDS ABOUT WHAT THIS
AMENDMENT WILL DO UNDER THE
CITY'S PRIOR FRANCHISE
AGREEMENT FOR COMMERCIAL
COMMERCIAL REFUSE HAULING WITH
WASTE MANAGEMENT THE CITY BUILD
ITS OWN COMMERCIAL LOCATION
CUSTOMERS AND PAID THE
FRANCHISE HORLER AND THE CITY
ALSO MEDIATED CUSTOMER SERVICE
ISSUES.
WE HEARD OR RATHER THE CITY
HEARD FROM STAKEHOLDERS
COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS THAT THEY
WOULD REALLY RATHER WORK
DIRECTLY WITH THEIR SERVICE
PROVIDER AND IN PARTICULAR
COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS INDICATED
THAT THE NEW CONTRACT SHOULD
PROVIDE THEM ACCESS AFTER HOURS
AND ON WEEKENDS TO MAKE TO TO
CALL ATTENTION TO ISSUES WITH
REFUSE COLLECTION AND THE NEW
CONTRACT WILL DO THAT.
SO THIS AMENDMENT IN OTHER
WORDS IS A RESPONSE TO
COMMERCIAL CONSUMERS CONCERNS
AND IT OFFERS ADDED EFFICIENCY
CONVENIENCE FOR BOTH THE CITY
AND ITS CUSTOMERS WHILE KEEPING
RESPONSIVE ABILITY FOR
OVERSIGHT OF OUR BUILDING AND
CUSTOMER SERVICE WITH THE CITY
DISCUSSION OUR FAVORITE POST IT
IS APPROVED SEE TO AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
ZONING REZONING OF THREE POINT
ONE THREE ACRES FROM TDP
TOWNSHIP DISTRICT AND R1 D
SINGLE FAMILY TO PADDYS PLANNED
UNIT DEVELOPMENT NORTH MAYPO
APARTMENTS REZONING EIGHT ONE
EIGHT FIVE ONE ONE FIVE ONE
EIGHT FIVE FIVE AND ONE EIGHT
SEVEN FIVE NORTH MAPLE AND ONE
NINE TWO ONE KALVIN STREET MOVE
BY BRIDGES SECOND BY
COUNTERMOVES DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF TO COUNCIL BRITISH.
I'M SORRY THERE'S JUST A LOT
OF PLANNING ON THE AGENDA
TONIGHT SO YOU'RE GOING TO HEAR
FROM ME A LOT.
IT IS RARE TO SEE PROJECTS THAT
HIT ALL OF THE CITY'S MAJOR
PRIORITY INITIATIVES AND THIS
ONE DOES SUSTAINABILITY,
AFFORDABILITY AND GREATER
DENSITY WHERE THERE IS
INFRASTRUCTURE TO SUPPORT IT.
THIS PROJECT IS ALSO A PUDI AND
IT IS THE THE UNITS THAT IT
WILL PROVIDE ARE CONSIDERABLY
SMALLER THAN THOSE THAT WILL BE
PROVIDED BY THE OTHER PROJECTS
THAT WE HAVE ON THE AGENDA.
WE ARE ASKED TO RESIGN FROM
TOWNSHIP TO PUDI WHICH MEANS
THAT WE NEED TO BE ATTENTIVE TO
THE PUBLIC BENEFITS AND TO
COMPARISONS TO THE NEAREST
EXISTING ZONING DISTRICT.
SO THIS WILL BE AN ALL ELECTRIC
DEVELOPMENT THIS AND THAT'S A
MAJOR BENEFIT THIS MAY BE
ACHIEVED.
THEY ARE EXPLORING IT BY
GEOTHERMAL AND HE PUMPS SOLAR
PANELS AND BATTERIES WILL
OFFSET FIFTEEN PERCENT OF THE
ANNUAL ENERGY USE OF THIS
PROJECT TO ENSURE EFFECTIVENESS
OF THE PANELS.
THIS PROJECT WILL BE INSULATED
WELL IN EXCESS OF OUR BUILDING
CODE REQUIREMENTS.
THEY WILL HAVE OPERABLE TRIPLE
TRIPLE PANE WINDOWS WHICH IS A
BENEFIT AND THE DEVELOPER HAS
MADE PROVISIONS TO COLLECT
COMPOSTING IN THEIR SOLID WASTE
ENCLOSURE SHOULD THAT SERVICE
BECOME AVAILABLE FOR
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
THIS PROJECT PROPOSES TO MOVE
THE TOTAL I'M SORRY THE PROJECT
PROPOSES SEVENTY NINE UNITS.
IT WILL BE TWENTY FIVE POINT
TWENTY FOUR DWELLING UNITS PER
ACRE WHICH SEEMS LIKE A SILLY
NUMBER TO GIVE YOU BUT I SAY IT
BECAUSE IT'S VERY SLIGHTLY
ABOVE THE MAXIMUM FOR THE
PROXIMATE ZONING DISTRICT ARE
FOUR D WHICH IS TWENTY FIVE AN
ACRE SO IT'S NOT A HYPER DENSE
PROJECT NOR IS IT A AN
EXTRAORDINARILY TALL PROJECT.
THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF OUR FOUR
D IS IS ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
FEET AND THIS PROJECT WILL BE
FIFTY FIVE FEET OR FIVE STORIES
ROUGHLY THE PROJECT MAXIMIZERS
BIKE PARKING AT ONE BIKE
PARKING SPACE PER UNIT AND
MINIMIZES CAR PARKING.
THAT'S SOMETHING WE LIKE TO SEE
.
FIFTEEN PERCENT OF THE UNITS
WILL BE PERMANENTLY AFFORDABLE.
THAT AMOUNTS TO TWELVE ACTUAL
UNITS AND THE PROJECT ALSO
CLOSES A SIDEWALK GAP ON THE
WEST SIDE OF MAPLE ROAD BETWEEN
N14 AND THE MAPLE
COVE DEVELOPMENT AND IT ADDS A
PROTECTED PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALK
WITH A RECTANGULAR RAPID
FLASHING BEACON THAT WILL SPAN
NORTH MAPLE ROAD WHICH IS A
SIGNIFICANT PEDESTRIAN AMENITY.
IT WILL CONNECT THE GARDEN
HOMES PARK TO THE SITE AND THAT
CROSSWALK CROSSWALK WILL ALSO
SERVE A NEW COVERED AT A BUS
STOP PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPER
.
I COULD SAY SOME WORDS ABOUT
NATURAL FEATURES BUT I THINK
YOU'RE GETTING TIRED SO I'M
GOING TO HOPE THAT WE WILL ALL
SUPPORT THIS PROJECT FOR
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL.
NO, I JUST WANTED TO ADD REALLY
QUICKLY THAT WE'VE HEARD FROM
CONSTITUENTS WHO ARE IN FAVOR
OF THIS PROJECT.
I WILL BE SUPPORTING BECAUSE
OF THE PUBLIC AMENITIES THAT
ARE COMING WITH IT IN THE
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT TO
THAT AREA OF TOWN.
SO HAVING RECEIVED THAT
FEEDBACK FROM PEOPLE WHO ARE
DIRECTLY IMPACTED AND WILL
BENEFIT FROM IT, I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO TO HEAR AND TAKE
INTO CONSIDERATION THE
DISCUSSION OF FAVOR PROPOSED IT
IS APPROVED C THREE AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND CHAPTER 11 RISK
FUNDING REPEAL SECTION ONE ONE
NINE THREE OF CHAPTER EIGHT
ORGANIZATION BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS OF TITLE ONE OF THE
CODE OF THIS DIVISION ARE
REMOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER AND
SECOND BY COUNCILOR IA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C THREE
AND CONTRACT.
WITH MY APOLOGIES SIR I HAVE A
COUPLE OF QUESTIONS.
IF STAFF IS AVAILABLE TO ANSWER
THEM MR WILLIAM IS HERE TO HELP
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS.
GOOD EVENING AND WILL HELP THE
CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE.
THANK YOU.
SO ONE QUESTION THAT I HAD AS
WE LOOK AT CHANGING THE
STRUCTURE OF HOW WE DO THIS IS
WILL WE STILL HAVE AN APPEALS
PROCESS?
WHAT WOULD IT LOOK LIKE?
YES, THE IDEA AND MOTIVATION
BEHIND THIS AMENDMENT IS TO
ELIMINATE THE BOARD
OF INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION OR
INSURANCE BOARD AND REFLECT THE
TRUE ADMINISTRATIVE NATURE
OF THESE FUNCTIONS.
SO THERE ARE MORE THAN ONE
FUNCTION SO THERE IS BENEFITS
ADMINISTRATION ACQUIRING OR
PURCHASING AND PLACING
INSURANCE FOR THE CITY AND ALL
OF EXPOSURES AS WELL AS THE
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CLAIMS
REVIEW PROCESS.
THE CLAIMS REVIEW PROCESS IS
WHAT SEEMS TO PRESENT THE MOST
UNUSUAL POSTURE FOR COUNCIL
MEMBERS BEING ON THAT BOARD SO
THERE IS NO PROCEDURE FOR THE
CLAIMS REVIEW PROCESS WITHIN
THE ORDINANCE CURRENTLY BUT WE
INTEND TO WITH THIS ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT CONTINUE TO HAVE THE
OPERATION AND FUNCTION OCCUR AS
IT DOES JUST WITHOUT THE
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
SO IT WOULD BE STAFF WITH THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR OR HIS
DESIGNEE AS A DECISION MAKER
WITH A SUPPORTING CAST OF STAFF
WHICH ARE PUBLIC WORKS OFTEN
OTHER CITY STAFF FROM THE
FINANCE DEPARTMENT CONSULTANTS
WHICH ARE OUR INSURANCE BROKERS
AS WELL AS THE CITY ATTORNEY'S
OFFICE THAT REVIEW ALL OF THE
CLAIMS, PROVIDE DISCUSSION AND
REACH DECISION ON EACH CLAIM
AND THERE WOULD BE ON THOSE
DECISIONS THERE IS A CURRENT
APPEAL PROCESS, THE SAME
PROCESS OR AVAILABILITY OF AN
APPEAL WOULD CONTINUE.
WE WILL BE CLARIFYING WHO THAT
WOULD BE RIGHT NOW AN APPEAL IS
HEARD BY THE SAME INSURANCE
BOARD WE WOULD PREFER TO HAVE
WITHOUT COUNCIL MEMBERS
INVOLVED A DECISION MAKER AND
THEN IDENTIFY A SEPARATE AND
DIFFERENT PERSON THAT WOULD
HEAR APPEALS AND PUT FRESH EYES
ON ANY CLAIM THAT WAS DENIED
AND SOMEBODY WANTS TO APPEAL OR
PRESENT NEW EVIDENCE OR
WHATEVER THAT CIRCUMSTANCE MAY
BE BECAUSE THERE IS STILL THE
FLOOR OK FOR THE COUNCIL SOME I
APPRECIATE THAT CLARIFICATION.
I SERVE ON THIS COMMISSION AND
IT'S ONE OF MY FAVORITE
COMMISSIONS.
IT'S PRODUCTIVE AND IS A AREA
WHERE DECISIONS CAN COME IN IN
WELL MAKE CLAIMS AGAINST THE
CITY QUITE FRANKLY RIGHT IN MR.
WILLIAM, CAN YOU CAN YOU
EXPLAIN THE ROLE OF OUR
INSURANCE PROVIDER IN THIS SO
THAT IT'S AND HOW WHAT THEY
PLAY WHAT KIND OF ROLE THEY
PLAY IN REVIEWING CLAIMS
OUTSIDE OF WHAT ATTORNEYS AND
STAFF MIGHT PRESENT?
YOU'RE REFERRING TO OUR
INSURANCE BROKER, RIGHT.
SO WE HAVE TWO COMPONENTS TO
THIS REALLY.
WE HAVE A CONSULTANT HIGHLIGHT
WHO ASSIST IN PLACING INSURANCE
AND THEY HELP US WITH VARIOUS
INSURANCE RELATED QUESTIONS.
WE ALSO HAVE HIGHLAND
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES WHICH
SERVES AS A THIRD PARTY
ADMINISTRATOR.
SO THEY HAVE ASSIGNED A PERSON
TO THE CITY'S CLAIMS PROCESS
AND THEY CONDUCT THE FACTUAL
INVESTIGATION OF EACH CLAIM
WHEN IT IS FILED.
IN ADDITION, WE ALSO HAVE
FINANCE DEPARTMENT STAFF AND
THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE THAT
RECEIVE THESE CLAIMS AND WE
WILL OFTEN MAKE CONTACT WITH
PUBLIC WORKS TO GO OUT AND LOOK
AT A PARTICULAR LOCATION, MAKE
SURE IF THERE'S A REMEDY THAT
NEEDS TO BE TAKEN IMMEDIATELY
THAT IT'S TAKEN CARE OF WHAT WE
THE HHS, OUR THIRD PARTY
ADMINISTRATOR DOES THAT FACTUAL
INVESTIGATION PROVIDES A
SUMMARY FOR THE INSURANCE BOARD
THAT IT CAN CONSIDER WHEN IT
EVALUATES EACH CLAIM.
SO FOR FOLKS WHO ARE UNAWARE
OF THIS OR WE GET CLAIMS FROM
EVERYTHING FROM SEWER DAMAGE TO
THERE IS A NINETY MILLION
DOLLAR CLAIM A COUPLE OF YEARS
AGO.
SO THERE'S A VARIETY OF ISSUES
THAT COME FORWARD TO THIS BOARD
BUT THE STAFF HAVE BEEN REALLY
GOOD ABOUT WEIGHING, YOU KNOW,
THE LINES OF WHERE WE'RE
RESPONSIBLE AND HOW AND THEN
DIRECTING FOLKS TO RESOURCES
WHEN AVAILABLE WHERE AVAILABLE
.
I'M IN SUPPORT OF THIS THIS
THIS RESOLUTION AND I THINK
STAFF OR YOU CAN DO ANY WORK.
ONE LAST QUESTION IF I MAY.
THE REPORTING MECHANISM SO
BESIDES WHERE WE ARE IN
LITIGATION, WHAT CAN YOU REVIEW
HOW YOU CURRENTLY REPORT OUT
WHAT HAPPENS ON THIS BOARD SO
THERE IS A CURRENT REPORTING
WHERE THE INSURANCE BOARD
MINUTES ARE REPORTED TO THE
COUNCIL ATTACHED AS PART OF THE
AGENDA.
I DON'T WE HAVE A MEETING
OF THE INSURANCE BOARD EVERY
MONTH SHORTLY THEREAFTER THOSE
MINUTES WILL BE ATTACHED AS
PART OF THE SUBMISSION TO
COUNCIL ALONG WITH OTHER
REPORTS.
THE INFORMATION IN THAT IS
FAIRLY RUDIMENTARY BECAUSE
THERE IS A SIGNIFICANT LEGAL
EXPOSURE TO MOST OF THESE
CLAIMS AND BECAUSE OF THAT A
LOT OF IT IS ATTORNEY CLIENT
PRIVILEGE AND WE WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE ARE HANDLING THOSE
CLAIMS APPROPRIATELY FROM THAT
PERSPECTIVE.
BUT IN ADDITION THE FUNCTION
OF THAT PROCESS IS TO IDENTIFY
CLAIMS WHERE THERE'S CLEAR
LIABILITY AND PAY THEM SO THAT
WE DON'T HAVE TO GO TO
LITIGATION.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
I'M SORRY.
MY APOLOGIES, MR. WILHELM.
I WAS HOPING YOU COULD JUST
SPEAK A LITTLE BIT BECAUSE I
THINK THAT YOU RESEARCHED US IS
SPEAK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT HOW WE
ARE UNIQUE IN HOW WE HAVE HAD
THIS SET UP FOR A LONG TIME.
YES, STEPHEN ARBER WOMEN'S
INSURANCE BOARD AND COUNCIL
MEMBERS, ALL COUNCIL MEMBERS ON
THAT BOARD.
YES IS IS VERY UNUSUAL.
SO I DID DO SOME BENCHMARK TYPE
SURVEY JUST FOR MY OWN PURPOSES
TO UNDERSTAND JUST HOW UNUSUAL
THAT IS AND I WAS UNABLE TO
FIND ANY COMMUNITY WITHIN
MICHIGAN OR ANY OF OUR PEER
TYPE CITIES SUCH AS COLLEGE
CITIES OUTSIDE OF MICHIGAN THAT
HAVE ANY PUBLIC FACING
INDICATION THAT THERE ARE
ELECTED OFFICIALS INVOLVED IN
THAT CLAIMS REVIEW AND DECISION
MAKING PROCESS.
AND I THINK THAT IS REFLECTIVE
OF THE ADMIN SECRETIVE NATURE
OF CERTAINLY THIS CLAIMS
REVIEW.
BUT ALL OF THE INSURANCE AND
BENEFITS COMPONENTS ARE LARGELY
HANDLED BY STAFF CONSULTANTS.
I I SEE WHERE MAYBE THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS THERE WAS A DESIRE TO
HAVE THEM INVOLVED.
I'M NOT SURE IT'S THE BEST WAY
TO GO FORWARD WITH THAT
PARTICULAR FUNCTION.
YEAH, IT ALWAYS STRUCK ME AS AN
ODD ROLE FOR A COUNCIL MEMBER
AND UM JUST THE FOR THE
POTENTIAL TO UM I THINK
EVERYONE HERE AT THIS TABLE YOU
KNOW, I WOULD I WOULD TRUST
WITH BEING IN THAT ROLE BUT UM
YOU KNOW, THERE COULD COME A
TIME AND MAYBE THERE HAS BEEN A
TIME IN THE PAST AND UH YOU
KNOW, DECISIONS ARE MADE MORE
ON A POLITICAL BASIS RATHER
THAN UM YOU KNOW, THAN A THAN
ONE THAT'S INFORMED BY THE THE
MATTERS AT HAND.
THAT'S ALWAYS A POSSIBILITY
WHEN YOU HAVE ELECTED OFFICIALS
INVOLVED IN SOMETHING.
SO I'M REALLY, UM I'M FINE WITH
THIS CHANGE.
I DID ON A NOTE JUST SIMPLY
THAT I SPOKE WITH THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR ABOUT THIS AND
ABOUT DAYLIGHTING UM
INFORMATION TO THE EXTENT THAT
WE CAN ABOUT CLAIMS PERHAPS
THEY CAN IT CAN FIND A PLACE ON
OUR NEW CITY WEBSITE AND HE
INDICATED THAT THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT HE'D BE WILLING TO LOOK
INTO SO THAT THE PUBLIC CAN
VERY EASILY SEE WHAT CLAIMS
HAVE BEEN SETTLED GENERALLY
WHAT THEY RELATED TO AND WE CAN
ALL CHECK ON IT ANY TIME WE
ANYTIME WE WISH.
MR. MAYOR MR. TONY, I HAVE HAD
THE OPPORTUNITY SUBSEQUENT TO
MY CONVERSATION WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER IA TO CHECK IN WITH THE
PEOPLE DOING THE WEBSITE AND WE
CAN IN FACT DO THAT.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION OR
FAVOR POSED, MR. WILSON.
THANK YOU.
IT IS APPROVED DC ONE
RESOLUTION TWO POINT BROOKS
CURTIS TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER SECOND MY COUNCILMAN
ACKMANN DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
ONE ON FAVOR POLLS THESE
APPROVED DC TWO RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THE CLOSING OF MONROE
STREETS FOR THE ANNUAL MONROE
STREET FAIR SATURDAY APRIL ONE
TWENTY TWENTY THREE A MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER JANELLE SAFFIN
BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC TWO IN FAVOR CAST
MEMBER BRIGGS YOU WANT ME TO ME
TO PRETEND I DIDN'T SAY THAT I
DO NO BREAKS SO I WAS ABSENT
FROM THE LAST MEETING.
MY UNDERSTANDING FROM OUR
AGENDA RESPONSE QUESTIONS IS
THAT WE'VE COME TO SOME SORT
OF BETTER UNDERSTANDING SOME
AGREEMENT OF SORTS.
I JUST THOUGHT THAT THAT MIGHT
BE ABLE TO BE DISCUSSED OR THE
MINISTER A STAFF MEMBER WHO CAN
ARTICULATE THE HAPPY RESULT
OF MAYOR.
I DOUBT BECAUSE WE DIDN'T HAVE
ANY STAFF INTRODUCTIONS BUT I
CAN JUST SAY THAT IN THE
INTERVENING TWO WEEKS SINCE
IT'S WAS LAST BEFORE COUNCIL WE
DID HAVE A STAFF TEAM
NEGOTIATION WITH THE
PROPRIETORS OF MONROE STREET.
THERE WERE CERTAIN CONDITIONS
THAT WERE NEGOTIATED OUT TO
ENSURE ACCESS OF EMERGENCY
APPARATUS AND PERSONNEL.
SHOULD WE HAVE A NEED TO DO
THAT IN ORDER TO MAKE THAT
PALATABLE?
THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME
PARKING RESTRICTIONS AND LANES
THAT MUST REMAIN OPEN AND WE
AGREE TO TAKE A ONE YEAR LET'S
SEE IF IT WORKS.
IF IT DOES, THEN MAYBE WE HAVE
A PATH FORWARD.
IF IT DOESN'T, THEN WE DID TRY.
SO IT'S A CONDITIONAL APPROVAL
FOR ONE YEAR.
THANK YOU, COUNCILOR BRIGGS FOR
THE DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED DC THREE
RESOLUTION TWO APPROVED
CONTRACT AMENDMENT NUMBER TEN
TO THE SERVICE CONTRACT WITH
RECYCLING ANN ARBOR FOR
MUNICIPAL RESOURCE
RECOVERY SERVICES FOR AN
EXTENSION OF ONE THREE YEAR AND
FOUR MONTH PERIOD WITH ANNUAL
INCREASES FOR INFLATION EVERY
JULY 1ST LIMITED TO THE
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN THE
CONSUMER PRICE INDEX CPI FOR
THE PREVIOUS CONTRACT YEAR OR
SIX PERCENT WHICHEVER IS LESS
ESTIMATED COST OF FOUR MILLION
FIVE HUNDRED THIRTY FOUR
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
THREE DOLLARS FOR THREE YEARS
AND FOUR MONTHS OF THE CONTRACT
MOVE BY COUNCIL FOR THEIR
SECOND COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC THREE
COUNCIL MEMBER QUINNELL
.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR UNDER
THE COUNCIL ETHICS RULE FOR I
NEED TO BE ASKED I'M REQUESTING
TO BE EXCUSED FROM THIS VOTE
COUNCIL ETHICS RULES FOR
PROHIBITS ANY SITUATION WITH
CONFLICTING FIDUCIARY DUTIES.
MY CONFLICT IS THAT I AM THE
BOARD OF THE ECOLOGY CENTER
WHICH HAS THE POWER TO APPROVE
THE CONTRACT ON BEHALF
OF RECYCLE ANN CREATING A
CONFLICT WITH CITY COUNCIL
ACTION.
I HAVE A MOTION TO RECUSE
COUNCIL MCANUFF FOR THE
PURPOSE.
MUWAKKIL FOR ACTING SECOND BY
COUNCIL WITH DENHA DISCUSSION
OR FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED.
YOU MAY STAND ASIDE REALLY
AFTER YOU GOT TO LEAVE.
YEAH I WANT YOU YOU KNOW
EXERCISING YOUR INFLUENCE IN
YOUR OSMOTIC FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL BRITISH NOT AS EVIDENT
FROM THE TITLE OF THE
RESOLUTION.
THIS WILL EXTEND THE CITY'S
CONTRACT WITH RCA FOR
COLLECTING RECYCLING FOR
MULTIFAMILY DWELLINGS FOR A
PERIOD OF JUST OVER THREE
YEARS.
I'M VERY GRATEFUL THAT CITY
STAFF AND AREA COULD COME
TOGETHER ON THIS AGREEMENT AND
VERY, VERY PLEASED TO THAT AREA
WILL CONTINUE TO PERFORM THIS
SERVICE WHICH IT HAS BEEN DOING
FROM THE VERY BEGINNING.
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR IS VERY
LUCKY TO HAVE ITS RECYCLING
COLLECTION SERVICES PROVIDED BY
MISSION DRIVEN RECYCLING.
WE WERE AMONG JUST FOUR CITIES
IN THE COUNTRY WHERE THIS IS
THE CASE AND WHAT IT MEANS IS
THAT OUR AID DOESN'T JUST
COLLECT OUR BOTTLES AND CANS.
IT SERVES OUR TWO ZERO GOALS BY
FINDING THE VERY BEST MARKETS
FOR OUR RECYCLABLES AND PUTTING
OUR MATERIALS TO THEIR HIGHEST
AND BEST USE SO THANK YOU
EVERYONE WHO WORKED ON THIS
AFTER THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL
OVER DENHA.
THANKS.
I WON'T ADD MUCH MORE THEN
COUNCIL MEMBER BUT JUST WANTED
TO ECHO THANKS TO ALL OF THE
STAFF BOTH HERE AT THE CITY AND
AT RECYCLING FOR FOR WORKING ON
THIS.
I KNOW THAT THERE HAVE BEEN A
NUMBER OF CONVERSATIONS BACK
AND FORTH TO TO GET TO THIS
THIS AGREEMENT HERE TONIGHT AND
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO SUPPORTING
IT AND I HOPE THAT WE CAN GET
TO A PLACE WHERE WE HAVE KIND
OF LONGER TERM AGREEMENTS IN
THE FUTURE SO THAT I KNOW THAT
WE CAN INSTILL SOME CONFIDENCE
IN INVESTMENT AND THINGS LIKE
THAT IN THE FUTURE IMPROVEMENT
OR THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MIRACLEMAN I THINK EVERYTHING
THAT COUNCIL MEMBER BRITISH
SAID EXCEPT I WOULD JUST LIKE
TO ADD I HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO
LEARN A LOT MORE ABOUT
RECYCLING OVER THIS PAST WEEK
THAN I EVER KNEW BEFORE AND I
DON'T THINK I HAD A FULL
APPRECIATION FOR JUST WHAT KIND
OF ORGANIZATION THEY ARE AND
WHAT THEY DO.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH OUTLINED
THOSE SPECIFICS VERY ELOQUENTLY
SO I DON'T THINK I NEED TO ADD
TO IT.
I JUST WANT TO SAY HOW HAPPY I
AM TO SUPPORT THIS CONTRACT AND
TO WORK WITH SUCH AN
ORGANIZATION.
FURTHER DISCUSSION FOR MY PART
TO CONTINUE TO THANKS PARADE.
I DO WISH TO THANK RECYCLING
HARBOR FOR WORKING HARD ON THIS
AGREEMENT AND THANK TWO STAFF
VERY MUCH FOR WORKING HARD ON
THIS AGREEMENT TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE ARE ABLE TO CONTINUE TO
RECEIVE THE BENEFIT
OF RECYCLING HARBOR SERVICES AT
AT AN APPROPRIATE RATE.
I'M INCREDIBLY EXCITED ABOUT
THE WORK THAT RECYCLING EVER
DOES HAS DONE AND WILL CONTINUE
TO DO ON BEHALF OF THE
COMMUNITY.
I KNOW THAT IT IS SOMETHING
THAT THAT WE HEAR ON COUNCIL
THAT THE ORGANIZATION CARES
ABOUT ITS COMMUNITY CARES
ABOUT.
WE WANT TO ENSURE THAT THAT WE
HAVE RECYCLING PROVIDED AS BEST
WE CAN AND I KNOW THAT THE THAT
WE ARE A BLESSED TO HAVE A
PARTNER IN RECYCLING.
THEY HAVE PROVIDED SERVICES FOR
YEARS AND AND I'M GLAD THAT
THEY WILL WILL CONTINUE TO
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
IT IS APPROVED.
COUNCILMAN COUNCIL MEMBER
KERNELL, IF YOU CAN HEAR ME
PLEASE COME BACK DC FOR
RESOLUTION APPROVING THE
REALLOCATION OF FISCAL YEAR.
TWENTY THREE NEW HUMAN SERVICES
PARTNERSHIP FUNDING BALANCE TO
EVICTION PROTECTION MOVE BY
COUNCIL NO SONG CITY BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSANT USE
OF DC FOR ALERTLY NO.
YEAH I WAS RAISED CITY COUNCIL
MORE SONG THAN HARRISON OK I
THINK WE LIKE ARM WRESTLE THINK
THANK YOU.
I'M REALLY REALLY PLEASED TO
SEE THIS RESOLUTION COME
FORWARD.
WE ARE IN THE MIDST OF AN
EVICTION CRISIS.
OUR COURTS ARE FILLED WITH
FAMILIES ON THE ON THE ON THE
BRINK OF EVICTION AND THIS IS A
COUNTY WIDE ISSUE BUT SOMETHING
THAT I THINK IN ARBOR CAN
REALLY SPEAK TO AS ONE OF THE
MAJOR FUNDERS TO WHAT WAS
COORDINATED FUNDING AND NOW NEW
HUMAN SERVICE PARTNERSHIP.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT I'D
LIKE TO THANK STAFF FOR WORKING
REALLY, REALLY CLOSELY WITH THE
COUNTY OFFICE OF ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT IN A REALLY QUICK
FASHION.
I THINK WE ACTUALLY HAVE STAFF
HERE TO DO AN INTRODUCTION.
IS THAT CORRECT?
NO, THEY WEREN'T OK DELACOURT
IS SO
SO IF MR. IT'S AVAILABLE
I THINK HE CAN GIVE US A LITTLE
BIT MORE DETAIL ON HOW THIS
RESOLUTION CAME FORWARD IN THE
WORK THAT THAT WE'RE DOING WITH
THE COUNTY.
YEAH, I'D BE GLAD TO SAY
PLASTICWARE SHOULD TRANSITION
THERE.
YEAH.
THIS RESOLUTION IS IN FRONT
OF YOU WAS REALLY SPEARHEADED
BY THE COUNTY AND OUR
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE OFFICE
OF COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
IT WAS BROUGHT TO OUR ATTENTION
NOT TOO LONG AGO THAT THERE WAS
AND I BELIEVE IT WAS DISCUSSED
BRIEFLY A REAL NEED FOR SOME
ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR SOME
PROTECTION IN THE COURT SYSTEMS
WORKING WITH THE COUNTY AND OUR
STAFF, OUR FINANCE STAFF AND
OVER HOW TO COVER THE HOUSING
COMMISSION, WE WERE ABLE TO
IDENTIFY THAT THERE WAS ABOUT
THREE HUNDRED FIVE THOUSAND IN
UNSPENT FUNDS FROM THIS YEAR
THAT WERE SET ASIDE FOR THE
YEAR ONE HIGH IMPACT GRANT
FUNDING TO THE NEW PARTNERSHIP
DUE TO SOME TIMING COVID ISSUES
AND OTHERS THAT THAT MONEY WAS
GOING TO GO UNSPENT THIS YEAR
WE IDENTIFIED THE ABILITY TO
MOVE OUR FUNDING TO THE HOUSING
COMMISSION AND ALLOW THEM TO
PARTNER WITH TO SEE THE
POTENTIAL SOME OF THEIR OTHER
PARTNERS TO DISTRIBUTE THAT
FUND THOSE FUNDS TO THOSE WHO
NEED IT MOST QUICKLY THAT IS
THE RESOLUTION YOU HAVE IN
FRONT OF YOU.
IT IS DESIGNED TO DISTRIBUTE
FUNDS IMMEDIATELY TO THE
HOUSING COMMISSION TO LET THEM
DO THE WORK THEY DO AND TO
PARTNER WITH THE COUNTY TO DO
THAT AS WELL SO THAT IS WHAT
WE'RE DESIGNED TO DO AND THEN
THERE WILL BE A GRANT AGREEMENT
THAT WILL COME TO COUNCIL AT A
LATER DATE TO SPECIFY THE
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR HOW
THAT MONEY WAS SPENT AND WE CAN
BOTH TAKE A LOOK AND SEE IF IT
WAS DONE IN A MANNER THAT WE
THINK IS APPROPRIATE AND IF IT
SHOULD BE REPEATED GOING
FORWARD.
SO WITH ME WITH MY REMAINING
CAN I PROPOSE AN AMENDMENT TO
THE RESOLUTION?
SURE.
I'VE SENT THE LANGUAGE TO MS.
POUDRE.
SHE CAN SEND IT OUT AND I'LL
JUST GO AHEAD AND READ IT
PLEASE NOW THEREFORE IT BE NOW
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT
CITY COUNCIL DIRECTS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO IMMEDIATELY
DISTRIBUTE THE FUNDS TO THE
ARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION
ALLOWING COORDINATION WITH
WASHINGTON COUNTY OFFICE
OF COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND THEIR OTHER
PARTNER ORGANIZATIONS TO
DISTRIBUTE THE FUNDS IN THE
MOST EFFECTIVE MANNER POSSIBLE
AND THAT SUBSEQUENT TO THE
DISTRIBUTION THE HHC AND THE
CITY WILL ENTER INTO A GRANT
AGREEMENT DETAILING THE
REPORTING MECHANISM FOR HOW THE
FUNDS WERE DISTRIBUTED.
A SECOND CITY COUNCIL PRUDISH.
YEAH, SO THAT WAS BASICALLY
JUST REPEATING WHAT DEREK SAID
IN A IN A IN A NEW CLASS UM,
JUST BY WAY OF A QUICK
QUESTION, MR. DELACOURT, DID
YOU HEAR THAT AMENDMENT THEY IS
THAT AND JUST TO CONFIRM THAT'S
CONSISTENT WITH STAFF
EXPECTATION.
YES, IT'S PERFECT.
IS THAT FRIENDLY THE BODY THE
COUNCILOR HARRISON YES.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I JUST WANTED TO SPEAK A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THE HOMELESS
HOMELESSNESS HERE IN WASHINGTON
COUNTY.
THE HOMELESS CRISIS A
DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECTS
PEOPLE OF COLOR IN WASHTENAW
COUNTY THERE'S APPROXIMATELY
SIXTY PERCENT OF THOSE
EXPERIENCING HOMELESSNESS THAT
IDENTIFY AS BLACK OR
AFRICAN-AMERICAN VERSUS ONLY 12
PERCENT OF BLACK AND BLACK OR
AFRICAN-AMERICAN INDIVIDUALS
THAT ARE IN THE COUNTY HERE
OF WASHTENAW AN EVICTION CAN
APPEAR ON A RENTERS CREDIT
HISTORY FOR UP TO SEVEN YEARS
HINDERING THEIR SEARCH FOR
SAFE, AFFORDABLE HOUSING DUE TO
A RIPPLE EFFECT OF NEGATIVE
CONSEQUENCES.
BUT BEYOND PLACEMENT, THE
IMPACT OF AN EVICTION CAN ALSO
CUT A RENTER OFF FROM ACCESS TO
QUALITY PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION,
GETTING THEM TO SCHOOL AND WORK
THE STRESS OF THE PROCESS AND
THE UPHEAVAL OF AN ABRUPT MOVE
CAN ALSO AFFECT TENANTS MENTAL
HEALTH.
WE'RE HERE IN WASHINGTON COUNTY
INDIVIDUALS EXPERIENCING
HOMELESSNESS WITH A MENTAL
ILLNESS HAVE GONE FROM
APPROXIMATELY 50 PERCENT TO NOW
OVER 80 PERCENT.
AND WITH SUBSTANCE ABUSE
SKYROCKETING SKYROCKETING
SOMEWHERE NEAR OVER THREE
HUNDRED PERCENT, STUDIES HAVE
SHOWN THAT EVICTIONS PLAY AN
IMPORTANT ROLE IN THE LIVES
OF LOW INCOME HOUSEHOLDS AND
MAY ALSO CONTRIBUTE TO POVERTY
THROUGH CASCADING DISRUPTIVE
EFFECTS SUCH AS JOB LOSSES,
ADVERSE HEALTH EFFECTS AND
NEGATIVE CONSEQUENCES FOR
CHILDREN IN ADDITION, IF YOU
BECOME HOMELESS AFTER AN
EVICTION YOU'RE ALSO MORE
LIKELY TO HAVE ENCOUNTERS WITH
LAW ENFORCEMENT AND ONCE
RELEASED INDIVIDUALS ARE MORE
LIKELY TO END UP IN A PERPETUAL
CYCLE OF HOMELESSNESS AND LAW
LAW ENFORCEMENT ENCOUNTERS.
SO I JUST WANT TO SAY THANK YOU
TO STAFF FOR PUTTING THIS
TOGETHER, WORKING REALLY
QUICKLY ON THIS AND VERY, VERY
HAPPY THAT THIS IS HAPPENING.
THANK YOU, CHARLES WATSON AS
LIAISON TO HOUSING AND HUMAN
SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD AND THE
HUMAN SERVICES PARTNERSHIP
LEADERSHIP TEAM, I'M PROUD TO
BE A CO-SPONSOR OF THIS
RESOLUTION WHICH IS IN DIRECT
RESPONSE TO THE FAMILY
HOMELESSNESS HOMELESSNESS
CRISIS IN OUR CITY AND COUNTY
AS OF DECEMBER TWENTY TWENTY
TWO THE NUMBER OF FAMILIES
EXPERIENCING HOMELESSNESS HAS
INCREASED BY 20 PERCENT FROM
THE PRIOR YEAR.
MOST OF THESE FAMILIES HAVE
NEVER ENTERED THE SYSTEM AT
LOWER LEVELS OF NEED WHICH
LIKELY ILLUSTRATES THAT MORE
PEOPLE ARE EXPERIENCING CRISES
RELATED TO CURRENT ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS RISING RENTS AND
FOOD PRICES 76 PERCENT OF THE
FAMILIES EXPERIENCING
HOMELESSNESS ARE BLACK FEMALE
LED HOUSEHOLDS.
THIS IS ABSOLUTELY A RACIAL
EQUITY ISSUE DUE TO MARKET
CONDITIONS LARGER AVERAGE
FAMILY SIZE IT'S BECOME MORE
EXPENSIVE TO HOUSE FAMILIES AND
HARDER TO FIND AVAILABLE USE
UNITS WITHIN THE HOUSING STOCK
.
THIS IS WHY WE WANT TO PREVENT
PREVENT EVICTION WHERE WE CAN
AND WHY WE ARE ALLOCATING THE
MONEY TO THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION WHILE THIS IS WHILE
THIS FUNDING IS WELCOME, THE
NEED IS GREAT AND WE NEED MORE
RESOURCES FROM OUR STATE AND
FEDERAL PARTNERS ESPECIALLY
COVID RELIEF FUNDS EXPIRE.
THANK YOU TO MRS HALL, MR
DELACOURT ADMINISTRATOR TO HONY
AND TO OUR PARTNERS AT THE
COUNTY INCLUDING IS BOY
BOYDSTON AND COUNTY
ADMINISTRATOR DEL FOR THE WORK
YOU DID TO DIRECT THE MONEY TO
THE HOMELESSNESS CRISIS OR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WANT TO THANK THE SPONSORS
FOR BRINGING THIS IN FOR SAFFER
FOR ALL OF THEIR WORK TO
IDENTIFY THIS AND DIRECTED
TOWARDS A CLEAR NEED IN THE
COMMUNITY.
I ALSO JUST WANTED TO TAKE A
BRIEF MOMENT TO THANK ALL
OF THE REAL OUTPOURING
OF SUPPORT THAT WE SAW FROM
MANY OF THE SOCIAL SAFETY NET
ORGANIZATIONS AND LEADERS IN
THE COMMUNITY WHO WHO ORGANIZE
TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY WERE
EMPHASIZING THEIR SUPPORT FOR
THIS AS WELL.
I KNOW THAT THEY'RE INCREDIBLY
INVOLVED IN AND INTERESTED IN
WHERE WE ARE DELEGATING THESE
NEW HUMAN SERVICES PARTNERSHIP
FUNDS AND END TO SEE THE
OUTPOURING OF SUPPORT BECAUSE
THEY RECOGNIZE THE TREMENDOUS
NEED IN THE COMMUNITY WAS ALSO
REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO THANK
THEM FOR REACHING OUT AND
LENDING THEIR VOICES OF SUPPORT
OR THE DISCUSSION ON FACEBOOK
POST IT IS APPROVED DC FIVE
RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO ENGAGE WITH
THE MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE AND
MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION TO ADVANCE ENERGY
EQUITY AND RESILIENCE BY
CUSTOMER GARCIA AND SECONDED BY
COUNCILMAN WATSON DISCUSSING
PLEASE OF DC FIVE ZERO.
I THANK YOU SO YOU KNOW I JUST
WANT TO SAY THAT I KNEW WHEN
PREPARING THIS RESOLUTION WITH
MY COLLEAGUES THAT THEY WERE
GOING TO BE PEOPLE WHO FELT
THAT THIS WASN'T THAT THIS
WASN'T GOING FAR ENOUGH.
BUT I BELIEVE THAT US NOT
SAYING ANYTHING TONIGHT WAS NOT
AN OPTION TO MANY OF OUR
CONSTITUENTS HAVE RECENTLY
FACED LIFE THREATENING
EMERGENCIES, PROLONGED OUTAGES.
THIS RESOLUTION IS ABOUT ENERGY
JUSTICE AND ASKED THE MICHIGAN
LEGISLATURE MICHIGAN PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION EXCUSE ME
AND OUR CITY TO WORK TO IMPROVE
REGULATION, ACCOUNTABILITY AND
TRANSPARENCY AND FOR OUR CITY
TO CONTINUE TO CREATE EQUITY
FOCUSED EMERGENCY RESPONSE
PLANS THAT PRIORITIZE
VULNERABLE RESIDENTS.
I WANT TO THANK DR. MACY STULTZ
FOR CONTRIBUTING TO THIS
RESOLUTION FROM A CLIMATE
PERSPECTIVE, MR. JOHN FORNIA
FOR SHARING INFORMATION ON THE
STATE'S ROLE IN THIS ISSUE.
OUR LEGAL TEAM AND JENNIFER
HALL FOR SHARING INFORMATION ON
HOW IT IMPACTS OUR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
I WANT TO THANK MY COLLEAGUES
COUNCIL MEMBER CYNTHIA HARRISON
AND ONE SONG FOR HELPING THIS
RESOLUTION TO CENTER EQUITY AND
FOCUS ON COMMUNITIES THAT HAVE
BEEN HISTORICALLY
DISENFRANCHIZED FROM
ENVIRONMENTAL AND ENERGY
JUSTICE.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK OUR CITY
STAFF AND EMERGENCY RESPONDERS
FOR WORKING AROUND THE CLOCK
DURING THE LAST TWO WEEKS
OF THE RECENT WEATHER EVENTS TO
KEEP OUR COMMUNITY SAFE.
WHAT DROVE MY MYSELF AND MY
COLLEAGUES TO WRITE THIS
RESOLUTION WAS THAT DURING THE
LAST 12 DAYS SINCE THE FIRST
ICE STORM ON FEBRUARY TWENTY
SECOND HIT WE HAVE HEARD FROM
SO MANY CONSTITUENTS WHOSE
LIVES HAVE JUST BEEN UPENDED.
I HEARD FROM A NEIGHBOR WHO WHO
LOST POWER IN FEBRUARY TWENTY
SECOND AND THE POWER WAS OUT
FOR SIX DAYS BUT DUE CARING FOR
AN AILING FAMILY MEMBER THEY
WERE UNABLE TO LEAVE AND FORCED
TO STAY IN THEIR HOME WHILE
THEIR THERMOSTAT HOVERED AT 40
DEGREES.
MY WARD THREE COLLEAGUE AND I
HEARD FROM A RESIDENT ON FRIDAY
WHOSE EIGHTY NINE YEAR NEXT
DOOR NEIGHBOR HAD BEEN WITHOUT
POWER FOR NINE DAYS WITH
ANOTHER WINTER STORM ON THE WAY
THAT EVENING THE ELDERLY
NEIGHBOR WAS LUCKY ENOUGH TO BE
ABLE TO STAY THE FAMILY MEMBER.
BUT NOT EVERYONE HAS THAT
LUXURY AND I KNOW THAT WE'VE
ALL HEARD FROM FOLKS LIKE THIS
ALL OVER THE CITY BUT I WANT TO
REMIND US THAT THESE ARE JUST
THE PEOPLE THAT HAVE THE
PRIVILEGE TO CONTACT US.
I WORRY ABOUT THE MANY WHO WHO
ARE STRUGGLING JUST TO STAY
ALIVE AND DIDN'T HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY REACH OUT FOR HELP.
AND WE KNOW THAT PEOPLE WHO ARE
MOST MARGINALIZED OR
DISPROPORTIONATELY IMPACTED
WHEN OUTAGES OCCUR PERSONALLY I
WOULD NEVER FORGET IN TWENTY
NINETEEN WHEN MY OWN FATHER
FATHER MA WHO WAS IN HOSPICE
CARE AT HOME HAD TO BE
HOSPITALIZED NOT BECAUSE HIS
HEALTH TOOK A TURN FOR THE
WORSE BUT BECAUSE THE POWER
GONE OUT FOR FIVE DAYS AND HE
WAS STUCK IN A HOSPITAL BED
WITHOUT ACCESS TO NECESSARY
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
HE NEEDED TO
STAY ALIVE.
IT WAS TRAUMATIZING FOR HIM AND
IT WAS TRAUMATIZING FOR ALL
OF US.
I BELIEVE THAT ACCESS TO
RELIABLE ELECTRICITY ESPECIALLY
IN OUR CLIMATE AND WITH CLIMATE
CHANGE UPON US IS A BASIC HUMAN
RIGHT AND WITHOUT IT PEOPLE
STRUGGLE TO MAINTAIN EMPLOYMENT
AND TO STAY ALIVE.
OUR CITY HAS HAD NUMEROUS
OUTAGES OVER THE LAST THREE
YEARS, HAVE LASTED MORE THAN
THREE DAYS AND EVERY TIME THIS
OCCURS WE ALL END UP BEING
IMPACTED IF WE DON'T PAY FOR
IT.
COUNCILMAN, AM I REMIND YOU
THAT YOU ARE I'M AFRAID IT'S OK
.
I JUST I'LL JUST END WITH
SAYING I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
AND I WELCOME FEEDBACK AND WE
HAVE TO KEEP D.C. ACCOUNTABLE.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL SOME
EARLIER THIS AFTERNOON IN ANN
ARBOR, THE FORD SCHOOL GAVE AN
AWARD TO SENATOR STEPHANIE
CHANG FOR HER WORK IN
ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE AND A
REPRESENTATIVE PROCEEDED TO
LEAVE HERE AS WELL AS DR.
ABDULLAH SAID AND I WAS REALLY
HEARTENED TO SEE HOW WE HAVE
LEADERS OF COLOR LEADING THIS
CONVERSATION ON ENVIRONMENTAL
JUSTICE AND ALSO SPEAKING TO
ENERGY JUSTICE AND IT SEEMS
LIKE A APPROPRIATE ON THIS SAME
DAY JUST A COUPLE HOURS
ACTUALLY FROM MORE THAN A
COUPLE OF HOURS LATER THAN 430
AT THE FORD SCHOOL TO TO SPEAK
TO THIS AND E0 IN PROVIDING A
SERVICE THAT I THINK WE DON'T
WE THINK OF AS AS AN ESSENTIAL
UTILITY LIKE WATER AND CLEAN
AIR.
SO YOU KNOW, I THINK COUNCIL
MEMBER ISAAC GAZY EDWIN AND
LEADING THIS EFFORT AND
SPEAKING DIRECTLY TO SO MANY
CONSTITUENTS WHO NORMALLY DO
NOT REACH OUT TO US WHO DO NOT
KNOW WHO WE ARE AND I WISH IT
WASN'T FOR THESE REASONS WHERE
IT'S THERE IN CRISIS THEY WERE
PUT IN CRISIS AND WE ADVOCATE
AS BEST AS WE CAN BY CONTACTING
DTD REGIONAL MANAGER LOBBYISTS
AND TRYING TO EXPEDITE A
SERVICE REQUEST.
BUT THAT IS NOT SUSTAINABLE.
SO THIS STATEMENT THEIR
STATEMENTS BEHIND THIS
RESOLUTION I THINK ARE NOT
SURPRISING.
TIMELY, APPROPRIATE AND IN LINE
WITH WHAT I HOPE IS ALREADY
HAPPENING IN THE STATE
LEGISLATURE LEVEL DISCUSSION.
I WANTED TO THANK THE SPONSORS
OF THIS RESOLUTION FOR BRINGING
IT FORWARD.
AS MANY OF OUR PUBLIC SPEAKER
SAID TODAY, THIS IS NOT A NEW
ISSUE.
IN FACT, IT'S SOMETHING THAT I
TALKED A LOT ABOUT ON DOORS
THIS SUMMER BECAUSE MY WARD
EXPERIENCES FREQUENT SUSTAINED
OUTAGES.
IT'S NOT OK AND I THINK THE
LACK OF ACCOUNTABILITY TO THE
UTILITY COMPANY IN THIS CASE IS
SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN REALLY
STRIKING OVER THE LAST COUPLE
OF WEEKS.
SO THIS IS TIMELY WORK.
I REALLY SUPPORT THE SPIRIT
OF IT.
THE DETAILS SUCH AS YOU
ACCOUNTABILITY OVERSIGHT
OF DTT, THE FOCUS ON ENERGY
EQUITY AND JUSTICE, SUPPORTING
THE RESILIENCE OF ANN ARBOR TO
THESE SEVERE WEATHER EVENTS.
THESE ARE ALL REALLY, REALLY
IMPORTANT.
SEVERAL PEOPLE BROUGHT UP IN
THE COMMENTS AS WELL AS EMAILS
THAT I THINK THAT WE GOT TODAY
ABOUT SOME CONCERN ABOUT WHAT
THE ENGAGEMENT LOOKS LIKE WITH
ENERGY COMMISSION AND YOU KNOW,
I GUESS I WOULD ARGUE THAT
THEY'RE SPENDING, YOU KNOW,
TONS OF MONEY ON PROPAGANDA
THROUGH ADVERTISING AND I GUESS
I WOULD SUGGEST THAT MAYBE
ENGAGEMENT WITH OUR COMMISSION
IS A SPACE IN WHICH THEY
WOULDN'T BE ALLOWED TO
PROPAGATE PROPAGANDA.
IT'S NOT AN ADVERTISING VENUE.
IT'S A SPACE WHERE THEY
ACTUALLY HAVE TO BE ACCOUNTABLE
AND LISTENED TO PEOPLE AND BE
RESPONSIVE.
BUT I THINK I WOULD LIKE ENERGY
COMMISSION'S INPUT ON HOW THIS
ENGAGEMENT SHOULD LOOK.
CANCER BREAKS.
YEAH, I WENT TO THINK THE
SPONSORS ARE BRINGING THIS
FORWARD.
IT'S OBVIOUSLY VERY TIMELY AND
AND CRITICAL.
I'M PROUD OF THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR HAS BASED OUR CLIMATE
WORK.
IT'S ROOTED IN EQUITY.
OUR CLIMATE ACTION PLAN IS AS
HAS THAT AS A LEADING
PRINCIPLE, NOT AS AN
AFTERTHOUGHT.
IT WAS CENTRAL TO THE WHAT WE
PROMISED THE VOTERS WHEN WE PUT
FORWARD THE MILLAGE.
BUT THERE IS A LOT OF WORK THAT
NEEDS TO BE DONE AT THE STATE
LEVEL AND A LOT
OF ACCOUNTABILITY THAT IS
REQUIRED BOTH FROM ACTION FROM
THE LEGISLATURE AND THE
MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICES
COMMISSION.
SO LOTS OF WONDERFUL POINTS IN
HERE AND AS A LIAISON TO THE
ENERGY COMMISSION I THINK WE'VE
GOT A NUMBER OF IT'S A IT'S I
WOULD LOVE TO HAVE THEM HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE A LOOK AT
THIS RESOLUTION, PROVIDE SOME
ADDITIONAL INPUT SO THAT WE'RE
IN WE'RE WHEN WE ARE I WOULD
PRESUME UNANIMOUSLY SUPPORTING
THIS AT SOME POINT WE JUST MAKE
SURE THAT WE WE HAVE ALL OF OUR
IDEAS IN IT MOVING FORWARD.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE TO TO
REFER IT TO ENERGY COMMISSION.
WE'RE MEETING SOON SO WE SHOULD
BE ABLE TO HAVE IT BACK FOR A
VOTE BY THE NEXT MEETING.
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND
BECAUSE OUR DISCUSSION
OF REFERRAL THE CUSTOMER GOES
THE OTHER ONE I AGREE.
I DEFINITELY THINK THAT IT'S
IMPORTANT TO CONSIDER THE
OPINIONS OF VARIOUS
STAKEHOLDERS INCLUDING THE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WE'RE HERE
TONIGHT.
RIGHT.
THAT'S WHY WE HAVE THESE
COMMISSIONS AND I TOTALLY
AGREE.
SO I AGREE WITH THE MOTION AND
I DO HOPE THAT WE GET IT BACK
IN A TIMELY MANNER.
I THINK RESIDENTS WANT US TO
ACT AND WE WANT YOU TO FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
COUNCILOR, THANK YOU.
CAN WE REQUEST THAT THEY MAKE
THEIR GIVE THEIR FEEDBACK BY
OUR NEXT MEETING?
IS THAT CAN WE.
IS THAT TOO MUCH TO ASK?
OK, BECAUSE I DON'T THIS I CAN
SUPPORT UM REFERRAL TONIGHT I
WAS READY TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
THIS IF THAT WAS SORT OF THE
WILL OF THE BODY AS WELL.
BUT I CAN SUPPORT REFERRAL AS
LONG AS WE'RE NOT LOSING A LOT
OF TIME WITH IT.
THIS IS I THINK AN OPPORTUNITY
RIGHT NOW WITH EVERYBODY IN
MICHIGAN REALLY HAS THEIR EYES
ON DTV AND CONSUMERS, THE
LEGISLATURE, THE YOU KNOW,
STATE REGULATORS AND EVEN A
MONTH FROM NOW WE'RE GOING TO
BE A LONG WAY FROM THIS ICE
STORM AND AND PEOPLE WILL LOSE
INTEREST UNFORTUNATELY UNTIL
THE NEXT BIG OUTAGE COMES
AROUND WHICH WE KNOW WILL
HAPPEN.
UM, SO I GUESS WE'RE ONLY
SPEAKING ON THE REFERRAL.
SO IT IS THERE A CUSTOMER WE'RE
DENHA I JUST TO HELP ALLEVIATE
A LITTLE BIT ACTUALLY AH THE
CHAIR OF OUR ENERGY COMMISSION
IS STILL IN THE ROOM BUT WE
HAVE SPOKEN WITH HIM AND I
THINK IF WE WERE TO MAKE THIS
REFERRAL TONIGHT I GOT THE
INDICATION FROM HIM THAT HE
BUMP THINGS FROM THE NEXT
AGENDA IF HE NEEDED TO TO MAKE
TIME FOR IT SO THAT WE WOULD
HAVE IT BACK IN TIME FOR OUR
NEXT MEETING AND ALSO WHILE I
HAVE THE FLOOR, I GUESS I WOULD
ALSO SAY I THINK I SUPPORT THE
REFERRAL AS WELL.
I THINK ANOTHER IMPORTANT PIECE
IS JUST BECAUSE THERE IS SO
MUCH ENERGY WORK HAPPENING
ACROSS THE CITY, I THINK THIS
IS AN OPPORTUNITY ALSO FOR FOR
OUR ENERGY COMMISSIONERS TO SEE
SOME OF THE THE POINTS IN THE
RESOLUTION AND MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE ALSO REFLECTING THAT IN
SOME OF OUR OTHER WORK AS WELL
AND CENTERING EQUITY WORK IN
ALL OF THE WORK THAT WE'RE
DOING THROUGHOUT THE ENERGY
COMMISSION.
AND SO WITH THAT I JUST WANT TO
ECHO THANKS TO THE SPONSORS MY
MY COLLEAGUE COMMISSIONER GEISA
EDWYN BUT ALSO COMMISSIONERS
HARRISON AND SO ON FOR THEIR
WORK TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT
EQUITY IS REALLY CENTERED IN
THIS CONVERSATION AS WE MOVE
FORWARD AND AND I WOULD ALSO
JUST REITERATE I THINK THE NEED
FOR US TO TO CONTINUE TO HOLD
ITS FEET TO THE FIRE ON THIS
AND I THINK THAT IS A SENTIMENT
SHARED BY THE ENERGY COMMISSION
AND WOULD LIKELY BE SOME
FEEDBACK WE GET BACK.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNTERASSAULT.
I WAS ALSO READY TO VOTE ON
THIS TONIGHT.
I FEEL LIKE THERE WAS A LOT
OF TIME AND ENERGY SOME AMAZING
HERCULEAN EFFORTS IN THE MIDST
OF OUR OWN OUTAGES THAT FOLKS
IN COUNCIL WERE STRUGGLING WITH
AS WELL AS DOWNED TREES AND I
RESPECT THAT WORK A LOT.
I RESPECT THE WORK AND THE THE
APPROACH TO THIS WORK WHICH I
FEEL IS REALLY A REAL TESTAMENT
TO COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI EDWINS
EXPERIENCE AS COMMUNITY
ORGANIZER AS SOMEONE WHO HAS
SEEN HOW THESE ISSUES DIRECTLY
IMPACTS OUR OUR VULNERABLE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
SO IF IF WE CAN MAINTAIN THAT
SENSE OF EQUITY IN THIS REVIEW
IN THIS COMMITTEE REVIEW, THEN
I WILL BE IN SUPPORT OF VOTING
TO VOTE FOR THE REFERRAL.
BUT WHEN IT COMES BACK I HOPE
THAT THE SUBSTANCE OF THE
RESOLUTION REMAINS INTACT.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION IN
FAVOR OF THE REFERRAL.
I OPPOSED IT IS REFERRED DID
ONE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR SITE PLAN
OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AT ONE
SIX EIGHT ZERO DUVAN ROAD MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER JUST SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER LUTSEN
DISCUSSION OF DB ONE COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH.
YEAH I THINK WE'VE HEARD A LOT
OF THE FEATURES OF THE PROJECT
SO I WANT TO JUST EMPHASIZE A
COUPLE OF THINGS THAT ARE
IMPORTANT AND THAT IS AGAIN THE
APARTMENTS WILL BE BOTH AS A
MATTER OF FACT BOTH THE
TOWNHOMES AND THE APARTMENTS
WILL BE WILL HIT MULTIPLE PRICE
POINTS.
THE APARTMENT UNITS WILL RANGE
FROM SEVEN HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT
ONE BEDROOM UNITS TO FIFTEEN
HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT THREE
BEDROOM UNITS IF YOU'VE LOOKED
FOR HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR, YOU
KNOW THAT IT IS REALLY
IMPORTANT TO HAVE SIZE OPTIONS
THESE UNITS WILL BE DESIGNED
NOT THEY WILL NOT BE DESIGNED
IN A WAY THAT SPECIFICALLY
TARGETS STUDENTS.
THIS IS NOT TO SAY THAT
STUDENTS ARE NOT WELCOME TO
LIVE IN THEM BUT THAT UNLIKE
SOME OF THE HOUSING THAT WE ARE
SEEING DOWNTOWN IT IS NOT
DEVELOPED AS STUDENT HOUSING.
SO THAT MEANS THAT IT'S MORE
FLEXIBLE OFFERINGS WHICH IS
REALLY IMPORTANT AND IMPORTANT
FOR US TO GET THAT OUTSIDE
DOWNTOWN EXCUSE ME.
SO UH, THERE WILL BE THIRTY TWO
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING
SPACES ENERGY STAR RATED
APPLIANCES THROUGHOUT THE
DEVELOPMENT AND AS THE
DEVELOPER SAID, THEY ARE USING
A COMMUNITY CONCEPT WHICH MEANS
THAT THOUGH YOU WILL HAVE
PEOPLE WHO OWN THEIR HOMES AND
PEOPLE WHO RENT THEIR HOMES AND
ALL KINDS OF PEOPLE LIVING IN
THIS UH DEVELOPMENT EVERYONE
WILL HAVE ACCESS TO ALL OF THE
AMENITIES INCLUDING THE
CLUBHOUSE AND THE POOL.
UM AND THERE WILL BE SOME VERY
GOOD WETLAND RESTORATION BY
REMOVING INVASIVE FROM WETLANDS
ON THE PROPERTY AND THE
DEVELOPER WILL BE MAKING A
CONTRIBUTION OF OVER THREE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS TO THE
PARK FUND.
SO JUST A FEW THINGS THAT IN
THE SITE PLAN WE NEED TO TALK
ABOUT THE BROWNFIELD PLAN THE
NEXT TIME WE TALK ABOUT THIS
DEVELOPMENT IN A FEW MINUTES TO
FURTHER DISCUSSION
ALL FAVOR
POST IT IS APPROVED DB2
RESOLUTION TO THE VILLAGE
OF ANN ARBOR SIXTEEN EIGHTY
DUVAN ROAD REDEVELOPMENT
BROWNFIELD PLANNED MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER THERE SECONDED
BY COUNCIL FOR OUR DISCUSSION
PIECE OF DB2 COUNCIL BRITISH
CAME UP EVEN FASTER THAN I
THOUGHT I'D SAY I DIDN'T RAISE
MY HAND.
SO AS THE STAFF REPORT MAKES
CLEAR IT IS CORRECT THAT
BECAUSE A COMPONENT
OF BROWNFIELD TIF FUNDING IS
DEDICATED TO NON ENVIRONMENTAL
USES FOR THIS PROJECT THE
DEVELOPER WOULD NORMALLY BE
REQUIRED TO PROVIDE A FIFTEEN
PERCENT AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
UH COMPONENT OR PAYMENT IN
LIEU.
NOW IT IS WITHIN THE DISCRETION
OF COUNCIL TO REFUSE TO WAIVE
THIS REQUIREMENT WHICH WAS
WAIVED BY THE BROWNFIELD
COMMITTEE COUNCIL SHOULD DO
THAT IF COUNCIL JUDGES THAT
THIS PROPOSAL DOES NOT OFFER
ENOUGH BENEFITS TO JUSTIFY THE
WAIVER, I BELIEVE THE FACTS AND
BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT JUSTIFY
A WAIVER AND I WANT TO RESPECT
FULLY DISAGREE WITH THE
STATEMENT THAT THE PUBLIC IS
PAYING FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFITS
BECAUSE HERE'S HOW BROWNFIELD
WORKS.
WE HAVE CURRENTLY A BLIGHTED
SITE THAT GIVES US ZERO TAX
REVENUE AND THE DEVELOPER IS UP
FRONT PAYING CLOSE TO 30
MILLION DOLLARS TO REMEDIATE TO
REMEDIATE THE SITE IS GOING TO
SAY REMEDIATION DEVELOPMENT.
THAT'S NOT CORRECT TO REMEDIATE
THE SITE AND ABOUT ONE SIXTH
OF THAT AMOUNT IS GOING TO GO
FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFITS THAT
I'LL SPEAK ABOUT A COUPLE
OF SECONDS.
UM, WHAT WILL HAPPEN IS THAT A
FIXED TERM OF YEARS WHICH IS
FIXED AT EIGHTEEN BUT PROJECTED
TO END AFTER FIFTEEN AND TO
BEGIN IN TWENTY TWENTY FIVE FOR
A FIXED TERM OF YEARS WE WILL
NOT SEE INCREASED TAX REVENUE
FROM THIS SITE.
WE ARE GETTING ZERO NOW WE WILL
GET ZERO FOR FIFTEEN YEARS
WHILE THE DEVELOPER IS
REIMBURSED FOR THE UPFRONT
COSTS OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL
REMEDIATION WHICH MAKES THE
PROJECT DEVELOPER DEVELOPABLE.
I THINK WE WILL GET SOME TAX
REVENUE.
I SEE YOU GUYS MAYBE SO YEAH.
SO YOU CAN SAY NO I GUESS YOU
CAN'T SPEAK SO THERE WILL BE
SOME TAX REVENUE THAT WE WILL
GET AND STAFF MR. DELACOURT
HELP AFTERWARDS PLEASE.
I JUST MESSED UP A LITTLE BUT
SO THAT'S I JUST WANTED TO
CORRECT BECAUSE I THINK THAT
WASN'T ENTIRELY FAIR STATEMENT
BUT THE THING THAT I WANT TO
SAY UM IS THAT THIS IS NOT A
PATRONAGE CITY AND IT'S VERY
RARE THAT WE IN WARD ONE GET TO
APPROVE SOMETHING THAT IS
OF REAL BENEFIT FOR OUR
CONSTITUENTS.
AND THIS PROJECT THOUGH IT HAS
NOT CAUSED ALL OF THE TRAFFIC
PROBLEMS ON PONTIAC TRAIL IS
KIND OF THE LAST PROJECT TO THE
TABLE IN TERMS OF NORTH PONTIAC
AND SO THESE DEVELOPERS WERE
WILLING TO PUT OUT AN
ADDITIONAL AMOUNT OF MONEY TO
SUPPLEMENT WHAT THE CITY WILL
BE GETTING THROUGH A GRANT
APPLICATION THAT IT WILL MAKE
TO INSTALL AN URGENTLY NEEDED
ROUNDABOUT AT DAVOREN AND
PONTIAC ROAD.
THIS HAS BEEN A PROJECT ON THE
ON THE CITY'S CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
IT HASN'T BEEN FUNDED.
THERE ARE NO FUNDS FOR IT
WITHOUT THE DEVELOPERS HELP WE
WOULD NEED TO COME UP WITH OVER
A MILLION DOLLARS EITHER FROM
THE GENERAL FUND OR I'M NOT
SURE WHERE ELSE BECAUSE MOSTLY
EVERYTHING ELSE COUNCIL MEMBER
COMMITTED AND I'M REALLY YOU
KNOW, I WOULD NOT THIS IS A
GOOD PROJECT.
THIS IS GOOD FOR OUR
CONSTITUENTS.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
BROWNFIELD COUNCILOR BRIGGS.
YES, I WAS HOPING THAT STAFF OR
PERHAPS SOMEBODY FROM THE
BROWNFIELD COMMITTEE MIGHT WANT
TO JUST TALK A LITTLE BIT MORE
ABOUT THE NON ENVIRONMENTAL
ASPECTS OF THIS PLAN.
MR DE HONI, IS THERE A STAFF
MEMBER HERE ABLE TO SPEAK TO I
DON'T MR DELACOURT STILL ON THE
LINE AND ON MR DELACOURT.
DO WE HAVE THE PLEASURE IS
BOOGY MR LEONARD IS HERE.
OH WISH TO CAST ASPERSIONS.
WE'RE DELIGHTED TO HAVE MR
LEONARD GIVE YOU A NEW MAYOR
AND COUNCIL.
YES, AS INDICATED I THINK
COUNCIL MEMBERS DISH DID
PROVIDE A GOOD OVERVIEW OF THE
CITY JUST AS THE CITY COUNCIL
HAS ADOPTED A BROWNFIELD POLICY
THAT STAFF USES AS A GUIDE TO
CONSIDER PROJECTS AND FRAME
THEM AND ULTIMATELY PRESENT
THEM TO YOU.
IT IS A POLICY SO THAT IT IS
THAT YOU'RE AT AT YOUR JUDGMENT
WHETHER OR NOT TO WANT THAT AS
IT RELATES TO THE NOT
ENVIRONMENT FOR THIS PARTICULAR
BENEFIT AND COMPONENTS OF THAT
AH SITE PREPARATION SOME
RELATING TO THE GEOTECH.
SOME OF THAT IS PART OF THE
ENVIRONMENTAL PROPOSED SUPPORT
OF SOME STORMWATER MEASURES ON
THE SITE AND MEASURE
OF ROUNDABOUT A CONTRIBUTION
TOWARDS THE ROUNDABOUT
IMPROVEMENTS IN THE FUTURE
PONTIAC AND DUBAH THE BULK
OF THE PLAN IS ENVIRONMENTAL
BUT NOT ENVIRONMENTAL
ACTIVITIES ARE PRESENTED AS
PRESENTED BOTH BY THE TISCHER
AND IN THE DOCUMENT COUNCIL
REGISTER OF THE FUND.
SO I GUESS FOR CLARIFICATION
THAT ELECTRIFICATION COMPONENTS
OF THIS PROJECT ARE NOT
INCLUDED AS A COMPONENT OF THE
NON ENVIRONMENTAL NOT NOT
DIRECTLY THERE ARE THEY ARE NOT
A ELIGIBLE ACTIVITY.
THE CITY IS AS PART OF THAT
THAT IS PART OF THE PRO FORMA
ANALYSIS THAT GOES INTO THE
ANALYSIS OF THE FINANCIAL
ANALYSIS OF THIS AND ULTIMATELY
THE PETITIONERS ASK AS I'M SURE
AS BOTH IN TIBET BUT IN SHORT
PART OF THE OFFSET OF THAT COST
IS THE CITY SUPPORT POTENTIAL
SUPPORT OF OTHER ACTIVITIES ON
THE SITE SUCH AS THE ROUNDABOUT
SUCH AS STORMWATER MEASURES AND
OTHER ACTIVITIES.
SO AND I KNOW YOU JUST SAID
THAT I JUST WANT TO CONFIRM
BROWNFIELD COULD NOT BE USED AS
A METHOD FOR INCENTIVIZING
ELECTRIFICATION THIS PROJECT
NOW THE CITY IS STILL LIMITED
BY THREE EIGHTY ONE AND THE
TYPES OF ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES
THAT BE USED FOR TO DATE WHILE
THERE'S SOME CONVERSATION
HAPPENING AT THE STATE LEVEL
ABOUT HOUSING MORE SPECIFICALLY
CURRENTLY THOSE ELECTRIFICATION
AND OR AFFORDABLE HOUSING ARE
NOT DIRECT DIRECTLY SUPPORTED
COST TO DO DO HAVE TIME FOR
ANOTHER QUESTION I'M AFRAID YOU
DON'T BUT YOU DO HAVE A SECOND
SECOND SPEAKING PERIOD FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL BRITISH I
WANTED TO ASK MR LEONARD TO
CLARIFY THE TAX SITUATION ON
THE BROWNFIELD TEF YEAH THERE
IS THERE IS A BASE TAX VALUE
FOR SOME OF THESE PROPERTIES
EVEN THOUGH THEY ARE VACANT
THERE ARE SOME VALUE ASSETS TO
IT SO WHILE YOUR I THINK YOUR
CHARACTERIZATION IS IS NOT
ACCURATE AND THAT IS GOING FROM
ZERO TO TAXABLE BUT IT IS
ACCURATE THAT IT'S A
SIGNIFICANT TAX INCREASE THAT
INCREASE IN TAXES AT PEAK
COMPLETE DEVELOPMENT IS
PROBABLY IN THE RANGE OF ABOUT
SIXTY THREE MILLION DOLLARS IN
NEW TAX REVENUE FROM THE
CURRENT LEVEL WHICH IS ABOUT
SEVEN DOLLARS THAT'S TAXABLE
VALUE.
THAT'S DOWNTOWNER BRINGS AND I
KNOW WE HAVE A WHOLE PLAN IN
FRONT OF US WHICH BUT IF YOU
WOULDN'T MIND SUMMARIZING SORT
OF THE THE NEED FOR THE
BROWNFIELD FUNDS IN TERMS
OF THE CLEAN UP THAT'S
HAPPENING HERE OR THE
MITIGATION PERHAPS THAT'S
HAPPENING AND THERE'S BEEN A
CHARACTERIZATION THAT WE
WOULDN'T REALLY BE ABLE TO
DEVELOP THIS WITHOUT USING
BROWNFIELD.
AND IF YOU COULD SPEAK A LITTLE
BIT TO THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL.
I I WOULD CONCUR WITH THE
STATEMENTS THAT IT IS
UNLIKELY
TO IMPOSSIBLE THAT THIS SITE
WOULD BE DEVELOPED WITHOUT
BROWNFIELD ASSISTANCE.
THIS IS A VERY CHALLENGING
SITE.
ALL THE REASONS THAT HAVE BEEN
ARTICULATED NOT ONLY ARE DOES
THE SITE FACE CHALLENGES FROM
THE ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE
OF ITS FORMER USE BOTH
ENVIRONMENTAL RELATED AND JUST
GEOTECHNICAL THAT IS SOIL
STABILITY.
IT'S A VERY CHALLENGING SITE TO
TO DEVELOP ON.
I AGREE THAT IS WHY THE SITE
HAS REMAINED VACANT FOR SOME
TIME.
THE SO I THINK THAT I THINK IS
UNLIKELY BUT LIKELY IMPOSSIBLE
THAT THE SITE WOULD NOT BE
DEVELOPED WITH SOME SORT
OF BROWNFIELD ASSISTANCE FOR
THE DISCUSSION.
FOR MY PART I'M EXCITED TO
SUPPORT THE BROWNFIELD ELEMENT
AS I AM EXCITED TO SUPPORT THE
THE ZONING IN THE SITE PLAN
BEFORE IT.
ANN ARBOR NEEDS MORE ANNABLE
RIGHTS.
THIS IS A SITE THAT HAS BEEN
VACANT FOR YEARS BECAUSE OF ITS
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTAMINATION
BEING ON TOP OF A LANDFILL AND
WOULD NOT BE ABLE TO BE
DEVELOPED AND THE COMMUNITY
WOULD NOT THEREBY HAVE THE
BENEFIT OF MORE RESIDENTS BUT
FOR PASSAGE OF THE BROWNFIELD
PLAN.
AND SO I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO
SUPPORTING IT TODAY.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OR FAVOR
POSED BY SHE'S ALREADY HAD HER
TWO IT'S APPROVED MISS CORPS,
DO WE HAVE A CLOSED SESSION
TODAY?
YES, MAYOR.
I'M REQUESTING A CLOSED SESSION
UNDER MS.
FIFTEEN POINT TWO SIX EIGHT
EACH DISCUSSION FOR PRIVILEGED
AND CONFIDENTIAL MEMORANDUM
THAT WAS GIVEN TO COUNCIL ON
MARCH 3RD, 2003 2023 NAVEH
MOTION PLEASE TO GO INTO CLOSED
SESSION ON THAT BASIS MOVE BY
COUNCILOR DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON ROLL-CALL
VOTE PLEASE STARTING WITH
SOMEBODY ALTHOUGH PLEASE START
WITH COUNCILOR YES COUNCILOR
ADMIN YES COUNCILOR BRIGGS YES
.
BECAUSE OF OUR KORNEL YES.
COUNCILMAN DISH YES.
CUSTOMER HARRISON YES.
COUNCILOR SONG.
OH SO ABSENT COUNCILOR WATSON.
YES.
CUSTOMER DENHA YES.
CUSTOMER GOSIA YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
CUSTOMER ER YES MOTION CARRIES
WE'RE IN CLOSED SESSION.
LET'S MEET UPSTAIRS IF WE CAN
IN SEVEN MINUTES SO PEOPLE
WE'RE GOING UPSTAIRS IT'S BEEN
REVISED DOWN.
YEAH
.
OH I MOVE TO AMEND THE AGENDA
FOR THE PURPOSE OF SHOULD I
READ THE TITLE ADDING A
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE CITY
ATTORNEY TO TAKE LEGAL ACTION
TO ENFORCE THE CITY'S TWENTY
SIX SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT WITH
GALMAN SCIENCES INC
WAS
ENTHRALLED WITH WHAT I WAS
SAYING BUT NOT QUITE ABLE TO
HEAR IT SAY I HAD COME CORNELL
AND ACKMANN DISCUSSION OF THE
CLERK'S REPORT ON FABER POSED
THE CLARK SUPPORTERS PROVED WE
HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR CITY
ATTORNEYS TODAY.
NO THANK YOU MAN.
ALAS THERE IS NO PUBLIC THERE
IS NO PUBLIC COMMENT OVERAGE
AND SO WE HAVE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN.
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILOR JUST
STICK TO MY CUSTOMER BECAUSE HE
HAD ONE DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED